---
title: "36: The Mission"
date: 2017-09-08T19:32:33-07:00
description: "In which a portal is closed."
---

36: The Mission (2017-09-08)

(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)

_20-21 Uktar 1491 DR?_

There is no sense of time within the portal, and after-images from everything the characters look at remain imprinted on their eyes. After seconds? minutes? they emerge from the portal, no longer on the Material Plane. They are greeted by the black, cloudless sky of Avernus, the first level of the Nine Hells of Baator, from which rain down burning comets and meteorites. The landscape is a blasted wasteland, barren and rocky, and littered with long-rusted weapons and bones from countless battles. The scent of sulfur is omnipresent, and the occasional river of blood churns its way throughout the land.

On this side of the portal, the translucent orb from the Material Plane is mirrored at the frame's top, only it's not translucent here. The orb is solid and real, and seems to be the source of the portal's power.

In front of the portal and party is a small village, sparsely constructed of rough wood and iron. It seems to be a staging area for a small army to gather and make preparations before entering the massive portal, and is currently empty. However, a small horde of devils can be seen in the distance - many of them fliers - charging full-bore towards the portal. It seems the spined devil that the chained devil flung through the portal has successfully raised an alarm.

Val takes up a defensive position in the village; Gimble creates an illusory wall off from the portal, and he, Finn, and Not-Bailey take cover behind it. The small idol Horns had been holding is no longer present, and he seems to be acting strangely. Hael tackles him to the ground.

Hails of spines from the devils begins to pepper the party, and Horns tells Ivor that the rod's energies should be able to interrupt the orb. Gimble casts _spider climb_ on Ivor, who charges up to the top of the portal and golf-swings the rod against the sphere. It causes a crack, and some of the inky blackness begins to spill out in a heavy fog.

The horde is almost upon them, and Horns convinces Hael to let him up. Amid a rain of spines, Horns raises a hand and shouts something in infernal, briefly outlined in a dim red glow; a full half of the imminent fliers shriek and flee.

Ivor connects with another swing, and a thunderous boom echoes across the ruined lands; the sphere shatters and the heavy black fog contained within cascades downward as it dissipates. Ivor is thrown from the top of the portal, and he drops the rod, which has also suffered some damage; the green gem is cracked but not shattered, and the wood around the gem is blackened and charred. Small sparks of energy occasionally lance out from the gem's seating.

With the orb destroyed, the fabric of the portal begins to detach and pull away from the obsidian frame. Horns picks up the rod, the devils close in, and the party begins to make for the portal; Ivor and Not-Bailey are the first through.

Suddenly, a wall of fire erupts in front of the portal, and a pit fiend slams into the ground.

Horns _wild shapes_ into a giant elk and charges the pit fiend, who catches the animal by its antlers. The rest of the party decide that fleeing through the portal is of utmost importance; one by one, they hurl themselves through the burning wall and land unconscious on the other side at the mouth of the portal, where Ivor is able to revive them with goodberries. As the only one left on Avernus, and the bearer of the rod, Horns disengages with the pit fiend and flings himself through the fire as well.

As the party gathers in the space between worlds, they realize that they need to make haste as the portal begins to destabilize around them; with the soul-orb that was powering the portal destroyed and the rod damaged, it's uncertain for how long the portal will stand. They rush towards the light that marks the other end of the portal and careen out of it into... a forest?

The sky is a soft lavender, and the colors in the forest are... _more_ than any forest they've experienced before. It's not that there are more shades of green, or that things are very brightly-colored; it's more like the green is just more green, as if the green that they know is a descendant of this green.

Finn, carrying the axe _Hew_, feels very discomfited, and the trees seem vaguely ominous to her until she stows the weapon in the party's bag of holding.

The forest seems safe, if a little quiet, and so the party decides that they need to rest. When they awake, the sky has not changed, and Val casts _speak with plants_ to try and figure out where they've landed. It soon becomes apparent that the group is not on the Material Plane, but in the Feywild, and the closest city is probably an ancient city called Mithrendain.
