---
title: "30: Thundertree: The Devil You Know, and Were Is Grey"
date: 2017-04-14T19:24:04-07:00
description: "In which Horns' past comes to light and Zane is killed."
---

30: Thundertree: The Devil You Know, and Were Is Grey (2017-04-14)

(Finn, Gimble, Grey, Horns, Zane)

- [Reidoth](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-reidoth) has something very important to tell the party
    - 30 years ago, the activity in Mt. Hotenow was the result of a host of devils from the Nine Hells coming through a portal from Avernus.
    - The Emerald Enclave was able to drive back the host, but not without suffering great losses themselves.
    - With help from those who remained of the Enclave, Reidoth was able to bind the commander of the host into a magical prison and sink it in the waters off of the Sword Coast.
    - A little over a year ago, Horns washed up on the shore. With his memory and devilish existence sapped away by time, water, and magic, he was taken in by Reidoth and began to learn the druidic arts.
- Upset and unsure of himself, Horns took a walk and some time before being convinced to return to Reidoth's cottage, where the old druid continues
    - A dark, familiar energy has become known to Reidoth in recent days, and its source seems to be Mt. Hotenow.
    - Reidoth is convinced that the host has been rebuilding the portal and means to pour into Faerûn once more.
    - With the Enclave still diminished, Reidoth proposes that a preemptive surgical strike has the greatest chance for success; he asks that party reconvenes in Thundertree in a few days' time to accompany him into the caldera of the mountain, where he can hold open the portal long enough for the party to run into Avernus and destroy the portal's anchor in the Nine Hells.
- Once agreed, the party makes tracks for Neverwinter.
- Luna returns to Gimble from her own journey to Neverwinter bearing a note from [Sildar](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-sildar-hallwinter)
    - The note explains that Sildar is in Neverwinter following the deliverance of [Iarno](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-iarno)'s body and the two Redbrands into the justice of the city. He mentions that he has a gift for them, should they find themselves in Neverwinter.
- During Finn's watch that night, she notices a dark shape with pinpoints of bright light approach her - it's StarBailey!
- Finn casts _speak with animals_ and greets the celestial wolf, who tells her to stay.
- She obliges, and Zane's screams rip through the night as some lupine humanoid sinks its claws into Zane's chest.
    - The beast has dark grey skin and pale white fur/hair. Tattoos of wolves adorn both of its arms and back, vibrant with watercolor hues.
- Before Zane loses consciousness, he expresses recognition of the creature; it then closes its muzzle around Zane's throat and tears it away.
- Grey the werewolf then turns to attack Finn; StarBailey bids a final farewell to the halfling barbarian and leaps at Grey, her celestial form disappearing into Grey's torso.
- Grey falls unconscious and reverts to his half-drow form, naked, with a large tattoo of Bailey on his chest.
- The party is unable to pull Grey into consciousness until the sun rises, at which point he comes out of it himself. To the south, a small meteorite falls into the grasslands.
- Along the way to Neverwinter, they come upon the impact site and find what is essentially a scimitar, cold, black, and forged from starmetal.
