---
title: "friendly fire"
date: 2020-08-08T09:19:09-07:00
description: "In which the party joins the fight against the party."
---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

This session was another session-long combat, which I didn't expect!

The Menagerie took some time inspecting Red Ruth's home and clearing, deciding how they should spend their time. Red Ruth had told them that she would return in several hours (probably a couple hours for the spa treatment, then however long it takes to travel between the Bone Brambles and the Wandering Emprium), and they pondered trying for a long rest. Horns spent some time investigating the cooking fire that had resisted his _thaumaturgy_ previously, and when he went to touch it, it reached out and slapped his hand away. Gimble cast _Leomund's tiny hut_ out in the clearing, providing the party a fairly safe place to rest, and most of the party made their way into the dome. Finn was the last one to leave Red Ruth's home, and as she turned away, she could swear that the fire made the face of pulling down one lower eyelid and sticking out its tongue at her.

The first watch was helmed by Val, Finn, and Not-Bailey outside the dome. Gimble stayed awake doing some arcanity within the dome, and the rest of the group settled in around him for a nap. The environment was still, empty, and silently malevolent. Finn drew out her kazoo and played something very like the Sephiroth theme to complement the spooky environment, and Val took a brief walk to the back of Red Ruth's hut so that she could wrap the eye and hilt of her sword in cloth away from the prying eyes of her party.

A couple of hours into their watch, the heavy silence was broken by the sounds of snapping branches, groaning trees, and shifting leaves, followed by a thin, keening wail. A huge arboreal creature - a _treant_ - composed of the same pale, near-petrified wood and crimson leaves as the Bone Brambles, stepped out of the thicket into the clearing, and the ghosts of four tortured dryads drifted out from the dark shadows of the wood.

Gray, Horns, and Zed were caught sleeping, and were unable to act in the first round of combat. Finn, Not-Bailey, and Val rushed to meet the enemy. The awake members of the party had to save against fear for each ghost they looked at, and most of those members were afraid of at least one spirit. Finn mounted up on Not-Bailey's back, and entered into a rage. The resulting wild magic surge lashed out with necrotic energy all around her, bolstering her with the damage it dealt. Unfortunately, the entire enemy force was immune to necrotic damage, so Finn ended up hurting just Not-Bailey and Val, but the temporary hit points she gained - combined with the damage reduction from her rage - went a long way towards helping her tank and soak the brutal assault of the _treant's_ hammering blows.

Gimble didn't want to leave the _tiny hut_ because doing so would end the spell. Instead, he dumped a bundle of darts out onto the ground and cast _animate objects_ upon them. His intent was to command the weapons from the safety of the dome, but the construct doesn't allow magical effects to pass through it in either direction. He directed the animated darts to attack one of the _banshees,_ but the animating magic was unable to extend past the barrier. Instead, the ten darts passed through the wall and were carried along by their momentum alone towards the _banshee._ The mundane darts that hit their mark didn't do much damage to the incorporeal form of the ghost, having lost their magical affinity, but Gimble expanded his arcane knowledge at least.

Val, caught up in her own fear of the _banshees_ around her, set off a 4th-level _thunderwave_ to try and throw off the sources of her fear; in doing so, she caught Finn and Not-Bailey in the blast radius. Not-Bailey failed her save and took the full brunt of the attack, bringing her to 0 hp and flinging her across the clearing out from under Finn. Two _banshees_ were similarly flung, and when they recovered from the explosion, they were drawn towards the tenuousness of Not-Bailey's life force and fell upon her, ripping the life out of her.

All of this happened within the first few seconds of the encounter, and then the rest of the group managed to get to their feet. Gray wolf-hulked out and started tearing into a couple of the shades, while Zed hopped onto... sigh... _Broomwinkle,_ and zipped out to pull Not-Bailey's body into the safety of the _tiny hut,_ and Horns wild shaped into a _fire elemental._ It looked like the party was finally making some good progress, and as the _banshees'_ incorporeal forms grew diminished, they let loose terrible wailings that tugged the souls of the living towards the grave. Across the four _banshees'_ screams, Finn, Gray, and Gimble succumbed to the attacks, and dropped unconscious.

_Fire elemental_ Horns careened around the clearing, dealing some small damage to the _banshees_ and a whole bunch of damage to the flammable _treant._ Val and Zed scrambled to play the medic role and bring the party back to consciousness, and Val soon wild shaped into a _giant elk._ Finn pushed herself back to her feet and raged again - this time imbuing her axe Hew with shadow - and climbed up the towering, burning body of the _treant,_ taking fire damage as she did so, and started hacking away. As the rest of the party managed to disperse the _banshees,_ Finn was able to shove the _bag of devouring_ onto a branch before the _treant_ crushed her against its body and she fell to the ground, unconscious again. The _bag of devouring_ expanded large enough to consume the _treant,_ then dropped to the ground and let out a loud belch.

Having dealt with the threat, Zed was able to turn his attention onto the deceased Not-Bailey. He arranged her in a healing yoga pose and cast _revivify_ upon her. A verdant energy gathered around Zed, traveled down his arms, and surrounded Not-Bailey. As the glow faded, her paws, ears, and snoot began to twitch, and she drew breath once more.
