---
title: "legs for days"
description: "In which the centipede comes home to roost"
date: 2021-02-19T23:00:00-08:00
---

---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

---

Invisible and in giant ape form, Horns sprinted down the hall, away from the closed door to the room with the _remorhaz,_ and turned into a room on his right that housed a flight of stairs leading up to the next deck.
He could hear the screeching of metal being torn apart, and got the sense that the creature was chasing after him, and not needing to follow him while doing so.
The flight of stairs opened up into a room upon a deck very similar to the one he came from; the room opened up into a hallway extending to his left and right, and another room with an ascending staircase opened off of the hallway opposite of Horns.

The hallway was in worse condition on this deck, clogged with so much broken metal and piping that traversing it in giant ape form would be impossible without taking the time to clear it.
He dropped his _wild shape_ and made for the opposite room, but was distracted for a moment by a brief gleam within the detritus of another _bone whelk._
Upon stopping to inspect it, he noticed two things: first, that the glint was simply a golden crown upon the tooth of what looked to be some kind of fiend's skull; and second, that a section of the steel floor was rapidly darkening.
An acrid, rusty smell rose from the area, indicating that something (probably the _remorhaz_) was dissolving the floor.
Horns booked it for the next staircase, and emerged into a room missing a large portion of its hull, and along with it part of the ceiling.

The crimson electrical storm raged outside, more violent now than it had been before.
The shadow of the _remorhaz_ could be seen just outside of the door that Horns had come through, and he spread his new infernal wings and took flight up through the broken ceiling to the deck above.
This deck happened to be the command deck, and Horns made sure to fly into the bridge room to ensure that he didn't remain exposed to the storm.
He took in the violet-flamed chaos of Val's experiment, as well as the unidentifiable corpse burning with the same fire.

The _invisibility_ spell that the frog-like creature had cast upon Horns fortuitously faded just in time for Horns to call out to the Menagerie.
He mentioned that a giant centipede was after him, and the group began discussing whether or not they should try to leave.
On the one hand, Horns was pretty concerned about being trapped inside the flying fortress with the _remorhaz_; on the other hand, they had to consider just how fatal getting caught in the growing violence of the electrical storm would be.
Furthermore, a brief scout by Gray revealed that the approaching vehicle they had glimpsed in the distance upon entering the fortress was no longer able to be seen from his vantage point inside the command deck.

The Menagerie had only just decided to take their chances in the storm (Horns _wild shaped_ into a giant eagle) when the head of the _remorhaz_ crested the edge of the command deck's floor, followed by its flared, spiny hood and its long, segmented body.
