---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2021-11-10T23:00:00-08:00
description: Description Placeholder
dnd/ref/characters:
dnd/ref/locations:
summary: >
  Rinn'thalas learns about cake. Ignaroz meets the party to discuss the upcoming Caper at Fierna's Tower. Rinn leads a few members of the party in some late-night teambuilding through larceny. The party continues their group therapy session during the next day of court proceedings.
tags:
  - my/DND/campaigns/import_campaign/sessions
title: 2021 11 10
url: /dnd/posts/2021/11/10/2021-11-10

---

## Scaena et Tempore

## Summary

[Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) learns about cake. [Ignaroz](/dnd/npcs/ignaroz) meets the party to discuss the upcoming Caper at Fierna's Tower. Rinn leads a few members of the party in some late-night teambuilding through larceny. The party continues their group therapy session during the next day of court proceedings.

## Synopsis

### Recap

> [2021-10-27 Import Campaign](/dnd/posts/2021-10-27)
>
> After spending some time with the stone giant [Keith Stone](/dnd/npcs/keith-stone), the party continues gathering intel for their Caper at Fierna's Tower. They speak with [Melkor](/dnd/npcs/melkor) and later [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis), who gives them detailed information about the tower's construction in exchange for a new contract to retrieve something extra from the tower. A letter is delivered to the party by a strange messenger.

### Brimstone

- Returned to The Brimstone
- [Rinn](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) learned about cake.
- [Ignaroz](/dnd/npcs/ignaroz) met the party to discuss prep for the heist in [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna)'s tower.

#### Teambuilding through Larceny

- [Rinn](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) investigated for info about his lost friend, Ze'brak.
  - found a lead in a tiefling-ish gentleman known as [Magnanimy](/dnd/npcs/magnanimy), who offered info in exchange for retrieving a broach won off him by another tiefling at the bar, named Veshvor (sp?).
  - later that night, [Rinn](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon), [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe), and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) teamed up to relieve the broach from the man, unawares. Gray provided a distraction, while Rinn and Oneshoe snuck up behind the man and OneShoe successfully swiped the item
- Rinn returned the necklace to [Magnanimy](/dnd/npcs/magnanimy), who offered some info about Ze'brak.
  - apparently Ze'brak had been through the Brimstone about a month prior.
  - he drew the ire of a chain devil know as [Wrath](/dnd/npcs/wrath-the-chain-devil).
  - last information was that Ze'brack may have been taken "upriver" to the Jangling Hiter.

##### Observations

- Based on Tanner's adjudication, from [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)'s perspective, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) just disappeared during the job.
- This means that intra-party comms during stealth ops need to be figured out.

### Court Proceedings

- the next day the party arrived at court, which was still in the excruciatingly long and boring phase of initial testimony. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) was seated uncomfortably next to [Carmen](/dnd/npcs/carmen), while the party was up in the stands.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) was getting wasted on Fireball shots and snacks.
- The rest of the party continued the theme of group therapy established last time in 2021-10-27 Import Campaign#Greetings and Group Therapy Session, this time with [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) opening up a bit about his past.
  - He grew up in the Feywild with an orc clan. His human parent is still there.
  - Zed explained that he was initially scouted as a paladin of Gruumsh while he was living with his orc clan, but he didn't really care of the orc culture, so he ran away and found solace and purpose in the Summer Court of the Fey.
- The party also continued regaling [Rinn](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) with the exploits of some of their past (mis)adventures, such as their connection to the assassination plot against [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania) and the betrayal of the party by [Caerwyn Cadogan](/dnd/npcs/caerwyn-cadogan).

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Carmen](/dnd/npcs/carmen)
- [Ignaroz](/dnd/npcs/ignaroz)

### New

- [Magnanimy](/dnd/npcs/magnanimy)
- [Veshvor](/dnd/npcs/veshvor)

### Mentioned

- [Caerwyn](/dnd/npcs/caerwyn-cadogan)
- [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna)
- Gruumsh
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)
- [Wrath the Chain Devil](/dnd/npcs/wrath-the-chain-devil)
- Ze'brak

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

## References

