---

date: 2021-12-08T23:00:00-08:00
description: Description Placeholder
dnd/ref/characters:
dnd/ref/locations:
summary: >
  Another day at court for Horns' trial. This time, the prosecution calls Val to the stand. This does not go well for Horns. Later, the party learns that Horns has been secretly hoarding a large stash of soul coins *since Avernus*. In the midst of intraparty conflict and high tempers, the party attempts to finalize the plan for the Caper at Fierna's Tower, but they ultimately opt to cut that short and do it live. Teleporting to one of the locations given by Aeortis, the party begins their mission on the 42nd floor.
tags:
  - my/DND/campaigns/import_campaign/sessions
title: 2021 12 08
url: /dnd/posts/2021/12/08/2021-12-08

---

## Summary

Another day at court for [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)' trial. This time, the prosecution calls [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) to the stand. This does not go well for Horns. Later, the party learns that Horns has been secretly hoarding a large stash of soul coins *since Avernus*. In the midst of intraparty conflict and high tempers, the party attempts to finalize the plan for the Caper at Fierna's Tower, but they ultimately opt to cut that short and do it live. Teleporting to one of the locations given by [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis/), the party begins their mission on the 42nd floor.

## Synopsis

### Recap

> [2021-11-10 Import Campaign](/dnd/2021-11-10/)
>
> [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) learns about cake. [Ignaroz](/dnd/npcs/ignaroz/) meets the party to discuss the upcoming Caper at Fierna's Tower. Rinn leads a few members of the party in some late-night teambuilding through larceny. The party continues their group therapy session during the next day of court proceedings.

### Two Devils Looking for Val

- one male one female
- they are calling [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) as a witness against [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- the male devil slipped Val a soul coin "for her trouble"

### Val at the Trial

- Jefferson and Zephyrsen are running the prosecution.
- [Carmen](/dnd/npcs/carmen/) has just been sitting there, doing not much of anything, apparently.
- Beside her, there is a gigantic rock golem with a small powdered wig on serving as judge.
- Prosecution asks Val to recount any instances to her knowledge of Horn's failures of character
- Val asks for an Abyssal translator 😳
- The same arcanaloth which Val *thunderwaved* at the sibriex encounter arrived as the translator.
- Val apologizes to the arcanaloth in Abyssal. She *somehow* persuades the arcanaloth to help Horns in exchange for a bounty of soul coins.
- Horns refuses the offer of the arcanaloth's help for the price of six soul coins.
- This did not go over well with Val. She went off on Horns. Big time.
- During the tirade, Val let slip about the unicorn.

### Awakened Tree

- For another character witness, the prosecution called the tree which Horns attacked outside [Phandalin](/dnd/locations/phandalin/) way back when.

### Carmen and Horns

- Carmen said she can help with the trial, but she doesn't like his odds with his "team".

### Intraparty Conflict

- Val accuses Horns for holding out on his private stash of soul coins.
- Horns denies this at first, but accidentally reveals his large stash of soul coins, which has kept secret from the party *since Avernus*.
- The party is not pleased.

### Planning for the Fierna's Tower Caper

Two goals:

1. Find and acquire [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin/)
2. Find a soul coin containing the soul of [Quilnorae](/dnd/npcs/quilnorae/)

### Doing it Live

#### The Water Closet

- The party teleports to the southwest corner of the tower. They are cramped in a tiny, dark room.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) examines the only door leading from the chamber, and decides to oil the hinges to minimize noise.
- She cracks open the door the smallest amount, and notices a lone barbed devil in the next chamber, which lit with low red light.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) wild shapes into a bee and buzzes into the other room to get a good look. There appears to be two other doors in the next chamber, to the north and to the east.
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) decides to use *Druidcraft* to create the sound of knocking on northern door.
- The devil notices this and opens the door, asking a superior in the other room if he needed anything.
- Horns observes this and sees a large Horned Devil outside the norther door in the corridor. The horned devil is annoyed and says, no, he doesn't need anything. He follows this up with something to the effect of ,"Go back to your post, you idiot."
- Seemingly confused, the barbed devil returns to the chamber and closes the door.
- Val considers casting *Druidcraft* again on the far eastern door, but the party mentions this could be too suspicious. Instead, Val opts to cast *Druidcraft* to create knocking at the door to their own closet!
- The devil approaches to open the door, and the party ambushes the poor devil, who is soon reduces to a pile of goo since he died on his home plane.
- The party considers their next move as the session ends.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)

### Returning

- [Carmen](/dnd/npcs/carmen/)
- Jefferson and Zephyrsen
- unamed arcanoloth

### New

- Awakened Tree Witness

### Mentioned

- [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis/)
- [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna/)
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin/)
- [Quilnorae](/dnd/npcs/quilnorae/)

## Quotations

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/): "And he was a *terrible* flirt!!" (denouncing Horns on the witness stand)

## Inventory

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) was given a soul coin by one of the devils summoning her to the witness stand, "for her trouble."
- After the party realized that Horns had secretly been holding on to a substantial stash of soul coins, they took some and distributed them to select party members.

## Trivia

## References

