---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2021-12-22T23:00:00-08:00
description: Description Placeholder
dnd/ref/characters:
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Baator
  - Fierna's Tower
  - Phlegethos
summary: >
  Oneshoe took point leading the party as they explored the first set of rooms along the perimeter of the tower going from Southwest corner counterclockwise towards the East. They find some torture victims and survive the activation of a devious torture chamber themselves. One of the party's targets has been found. No sign of Magrin yet.
tags:
  - my/DND/campaigns/import_campaign/sessions
title: 2021 12 22
url: /dnd/posts/2021/12/22/2021-12-22

---

## Scaena et Tempore

## Summary

[Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) took point leading the party as they explored the first set of rooms along the perimeter of the tower going from Southwest corner counterclockwise towards the East. They find some torture victims and survive the activation of a devious torture chamber themselves. One of the party's targets has been found. No sign of [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin) yet.

## Synopsis

### Recap

> [2021-12-08 Import Campaign](/dnd/posts/2021-12-08)
>
> Another day at court for [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)' trial. This time, the prosecution calls [Val](/dnd/characters/val) to the stand. This does not go well for Horns. Later, the party learns that Horns has been secretly hoarding a large stash of soul coins *since Avernus*. In the midst of intraparty conflict and high tempers, the party attempts to finalize the plan for the Caper at Fierna's Tower, but they ultimately opt to cut that short and do it live. Teleporting to one of the locations given by [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis), the party begins their mission on the 42nd floor.

### The Rack Room

- After killing the first guard in the southern chamber last session, the party moves on to the east door. They find another dimly-lit obsidian room filled with torture implements.
- Two extremely disfigured horned devils lay unconscious and barely alive on the racks. [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) opts to dispatch them as an act of mercy.

### The Blender Room

#### A Risky Theft

- Two air elementals in room with obsidian shards completely covering the floor.
- A chain devil is hoisted in the air and bound by numerous chains from all sides. It appears unconscious and nearly destroyed, with small lacerations all over the body.
- With the party waiting behind in the Rack Room, [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) avoids notice of the elementals and stealthily spider-climbs to the ceiling. She then scampers down the chains and steals a necklace from the dying chain devil. This act causes the chain devil to dissolve into goo.
- The necklace has an inscription in Undercommon.

> *To Elynnore, with love* _
>
--Gothram

- Due to the rapidly discorporating chain devil, the air elementals become agitated, but they are unable to locate Oneshoe, so they activate the true purpose of the room and start up the blender ™ (using their whirlwind to cast the shards of obsidian violently about the chamber).
- OneShoe tries to poison the air elementals by throwing an open vile of *Oil of Taggit* into the room, but this backfires and she is nearly poisoned herself by the blowback. Additionally, the air elementals themselves seem unaffected.

#### Air Elemental Fight

- A fight ensues as the elementals assault the party in the Rack Room.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) gets a wild surge, which temporarily imparts some Mjölnir-like properties to her axe, *Hew*. She uses this to finish off one of the elementals in a dramatic fashion.
- The party is eventually victorious and dispatches the elementals, but Oneshoe got roughed up badly.
- [Rinn](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) gives Oneshoe 20 goodberries. (10 remaining)

#### A Tense Moment

- The party tries to quickly sneak through a short patch of corridor leading to the next room and is nearly successful. However, Oneshoe, heavily injured, attracts the attention of a guardian Hellhound further up the corridor, and the beast starts to approach with its handler. Oneshoe decides to return to the Rack Room alone to draw the attention away from the party.
- Oneshoe does her best to remain hidden as the guard came into the room to investigate.
- After a few tense moments, the guard gives up the search and returns up the corridor, which gives Oneshoe the opportunity to rejoin the others in the new room.

### The Bedroom

- Lots of stuff in here to find. Expensive clothing and items abound.
- Many anatomical drawing of devils.
- Some mention of a name that may belong to the owner of the room (and probably torturer), Gelfondi.
- a notebook with instructions for building a construct from souls
  - a key is needed to activate the pads

### The Library

- OneShoe finds the soul coin for [Quilnorae](/dnd/npcs/quilnorae), which should fulfill the quest for [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis). She keeps this to herself and successfully deceives [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon), who is none the wiser.
- Oneshoe also finds a contract between [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna) and [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin), which indicates that Magrin likely came to Fierna willingly. This contradicts what the party has been told for the work in [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/notes/tymphals-contract).
- Oneshoe finds various papers detailing persons of interest, including Gothram.
- She finds a secret stash behind a painting with a safe.
  - With [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)'s help, she opens the combination safe. `14344`.
  - Within, she finds a (Peregrine's version of) *Manual of Quickness of Action* and an empty soul coin.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon)

### Returning

### New

### Mentioned

- [Aeortis](/dnd/npcs/aeortis)
- [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna)
- Gelfondi
- Gothram
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin)
- [Quilnorae](/dnd/npcs/quilnorae)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) acquires:
  - an engraved locket stolen from a dying chain devil
  - a soul coin containing the soul of [Quilnorae](/dnd/npcs/quilnorae)
  - a contract between [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin) and [Fierna](/dnd/npcs/fierna)
  - (Peregrine's version of) *Manual of Quickness of Action*
  - 20 goodberries from [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) has 10 goodberries remaining.

## Trivia

## References

