---

date: 2022-09-28
description: In which the material plane is surely less complicated than Baator.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Elian
  - Graz'zt
  - Levistus
  - Lily Ashewood
  - Unidius
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Neverwinter
summary: >
  Val recovers from her possession by Graz'zt, Finn finds religion, and it snows in Neverwinter.
title: Midwinter in Highsun
url: /dnd/posts/2022/09/28/midwinter-in-highsun

---

_`DR 1492-08-30 (Eleasis, Highsun)`_

## Summary

Val's rampage is over, she's whisked away to the medical ward in the mage's college, and Rinn is the first to notice that it's beginning to snow... in Neverwinter... in late summer.

Val spends three days in a coma with only [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt/) for company where he wheedles and heckles, and during those three days:

- Rinn has a brief conversation with [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/), then posts up in Val's room to keep watch.
- Horns takes part in some of the cleanup of the city, and keeps noticing brief flashes of the icy visage of [Levistus](dnd/npcs/levistus/) in reflective surfaces.
- Gray wanders to [Lily Ashewood](/dnd/npcs/lily-ashewood/)'s estate, but leaves instead of approaching.
- Gray wanders to the Neverdeath graveyard, and leaves when he sees a raven watching him.
- Gray wanders to that tavern where he picks up messages for Gray, does a walk-by first, then picks up a message.
  - _"Suspected cult of the dragon activity, abandoned farmhouse, ~2 miles north of Neverwinter"_
- Gray receives a paper crane message.
- Finn, feeling lost and scared and depressed, wanders between various shrines and temples and churches and sundry religious institutions. She eventually comes to rest at a small, unoccupied shrine to Selûne, and an ethereal voice makes a connection with her. They talk through some of the things weighing Finn down, and the goddess helps to explain that there are many things Finn can't control - but she _can_ control herself and who she wants to be. The goddess asks if Finn would like her to walk beside her for a while, and Finn agrees. The bond is sealed with a small amount of Finn's blood smeared onto the back of the shrine.

After multiple castings of _greater restoration_, the medical mages are finally successful in purging Graz'zt's influence from Val and she projectile vomits a chunk of sticky black ichor. Graz'zt's parting words to Val are to ask her if her predilection for the abyss is based on her own interests or just because it's in her blood.

[Master Elian](dnd/npcs/elian/) delivers the results of the college's investigation of the mechanical panther: the maker's mark on the construct's chest seems to indicate some entity (or entities) known as "Cause and Effect", seemingly originating from somewhere in the interplanar hub city of Sigil, the City of Doors.

Graz'zt's departing words have clicked an idea in Val's head about a connection between the abyss, [the missive that she pieced together](/dnd/hidden/abyssal-note) from scattered, fractured sheafs, and her family's history. The snow continues to fall, and the party wonders about the reason for it: spores from the abyssal influence mentioned in Val's note? Ripple effects from the events in the Feywild? A consequence of the restored connection between Horns and Levistus?

<!---
TODO: Consolidate Session Notes
-->

## Summary

With [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) finally subdued, [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) teleports most of the party to the Mage College to begin the difficult work of attempting to remove Graz'zt's control over the wayward druid. Meanwhile, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) notices an unseasonal snowfall as he confronts [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/). Days pass, [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) explores the local temples seeking guidance; [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) covertly handles a few things on his own in Neverwinter; [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) assists the local druids in repairing the damage from the attack; and Rinn'thalas stands guard over an unconscious Val. When the druid finally awakens, she claims to be free of Graz'zt but has foul tidings for the party.

## Synopsis

### Recap

[Val](/dnd/characters/val/) continues her internal fight with [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt/) for control. The party finds it difficult to track their friend as she repeatedly teleports around Neverwinter. Finally sighting Val at a distance, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) shows no hesitation in committing to a lethal assault. [The Vigil](/dnd/npcs/the-vigil/) sends word that an infamous operative has been tasked to remove the threat. Finally, thanks to information gathered by [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/), [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) is able to teleport the party near Val's location. They race to subdue the wayward druid peacefully before either she destroys more lives or loses her own in the process.

### Events

#### Val Loses Consciousness

- As [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) loses consciousness after [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) struck her with the *Dagger of Feign Death*, she comes face to face with Graz'zt in her mind.
- She immediately tries to punch the demon prince, but he dodges easily, taunting her continuously.
- Graz'zt toys with Val and claims that she will lose his gifts if [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) succeeds in helping Val.
- Graz'zt's tries to influence Val by implied threats against her family, but she doesn't buy it.
- Val tries to conjure a box within her mind to imprison Graz'zt, but he cannot be so easily contained. foo
- Graz'zt keeps insinuating that her abyssal predilection "runs in her blood".

#### Master Elian Takes Val the Mage University

- He says that they will try to cure Val, but that the party isn't needed. He states that the party can find a place to stay in the city or they can stay in the student bunks.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) asks [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) about the information about the steel panther that attacked them earlier.

#### Late Summer Snow in Neverwinter

- Astride a summoned owl, Rinn'thalas flies towards the last location of the party in the north of the city. As he approaches he notices something odd. A few flakes start drifting down from above, soon followed by many across the area. It has just started to snow in the Neverwinter--exceptionally unusual for the late summer.

#### The Party in the Mage College

- They see a fair number of warrior mages guarding the early rooms.
- Master Elian carries Val up to an office.
- He asks some of the other fellows to carry off Val to another location.
- Master Elian leads the party out to the gates where they tried to break in earlier.
- He states that he will let them know when they have progress updates on Val.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) takes note of the layout of some of the college and the activities of some of the students.
- He looks around a bit, but doesn't take note of Piety anywhere.

#### Rinn Closes in on Unidius

- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) closed in with [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/) and asks about what happened with Val.
- Unidius was a crotchety old wizard and told his version of events.
- He seemed to be done with the interaction and stated he was returning to the bath to have his "3 o'clock whiskey".

#### Rinn and Gray

- He flew back to the Mage College and saw Gray disguised as an old.
- Rinn asked about how things went down with Val.

#### Rinn Checking on Val

- Master Elian takes Rinn to the medical ward.
- He speaks with Master Elian and asks about Val's condition
- Rinn stays and keeps watch over Val.

#### Finn Looking for Guidance

- Finn get a few beers and wanders around Neverwinter looking for religious guidance.
- She stops in a temple to Lathander. She thinks it's a little fun, but it was a bit too bright and cheery for her current feeling.
- She stops at a few other temples and doesn't find a good match.
- Finn then stops in a small shrine to Selûne.
- She leaves a coin at the shrine.
- Finn here's a voice that asks if Finn is lost and what she needs.
- They have a long conversation and connect.
- Finn makes a blood offering to cement the bond.

#### Gray's Walkabout

- Gray inspects the graveyard at Neverdeath.
- As he walks along, Gray notices one particular crow overly-focused on him.
- Gray stops, notices, and then walks away.
- Then Gray goes to the Temple of Sune to check on [Trynna Breargarden](/dnd/npcs/trynna-breargarden/). He assesses the state of things, and he leaves.
- Gray then shifts his appearance to human more towards Gray and goes to the bar to see if he has any messages.
- Gray sees a small scroll addressed to him. He pockets it and leaves.
- He returns to the mage college.

#### Horns Assists the Druids to Quash the Remaining Wildfires

- He has the summoned owls help air drop water to quash the fires.

#### Reunion at the Mage College

- Finn and Gray return to Val's room to oversee her recovery.
- Horns spends a fair bit of his time helping the druids oversee repairing some of the damage to Neverwinter from the attack.

#### Three Days Later

- Val bucks violently awake. She snaps off one of her tethers, and she coughs up a black wad of goo.
- Val says she has a message in Abyssal.
- Master Elian arrives to check Val's status.
- Val discusses the letter with the party.
- Master Elian found a "maker's mark" on the steel panther construct.
- It refers to an entity or entities called "Cause and Effect".

#### Gray Receives a Paper Crane

- A secret message.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)

### Returning

- [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt/)
- [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/)
- [Trynna Breargarden](/dnd/npcs/trynna-breargarden/)
- [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/)

### New

- Unnamed priest of Selûne

### Mentioned

- [Piety](/dnd/npcs/piety/)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

## References