---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2022-06-08T23:00:00-07:00
description: In which the party learns the consequences of a kiss.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Creed
  - Graz'zt
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Hells
  - The Brimstone
  - The River Styx
  - Minauros
  - Jangling Hiter
  - Dis
  - Avernus
  - The Abyss
  - Argent Palace
summary: >
  Now that Horns has been exonerated, the party prepares to leave the Hells, but a certain demon prince has other plans.
title: 2022 06 08
url: /dnd/posts/2022/06/08/2022-06-08

---

## Summary

Having spent a night of various degrees of frivolity celebrating [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)' exoneration, the party prepares to sail back down the River Styx to Avernus. Meanwhile, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) sneaks off on his own to track a rumor through some of the lower layers. Arriving on the first layer, Gray gives [Val](/dnd/characters/val) the scroll of *Plane Shift* to return home, but Graz'zt takes over and sends them to the Argent palace in the Abyss instead! Fighting against the demon lord's control, Val uses her borrowed power to cast *Plane Shift* again, sending party back to the material plane as the laughter of the demon prince echoes in their wake.

## Synopsis

### Recap

- [Carmen](/dnd/npcs/carmen) threw her weight around the court. She asked the judge to throw out the whole case.
- For evidence, she summoned an avatar of Levistus who claimed that [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) carried out all his actions under the umbrella of Levistus.
- The case was thrown out.
- There were great celebrations.
- Three devils approached Horns and offered a good time. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) suggested they adjourn to the penthouse at The Brimstone. One of the succubi was the same one who had served the papers to Horns earlier.
- The party returned to the docks to find Creed on the Pearl Jammer.
- The party starts sailing the River Styx back towards Avernus.
- They left off on Dis.

### Events

#### Rinn's Side Quest

- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) scoped out the Jangling Hiter from a distance on his own.
- He succeeded in not being found, but he didn't learn too much. Only that the info was likely correct, but [Ze'brak](/dnd/npcs/zebrak) was no longer there.
- He was likely in the Material Plane.

#### Passing Through Dis

- Hourly chimes. Constantly changing city.
- A huge tower.
- Some folks from the side of the river call out the companions to join and have a good time. The party declines and continues on.

#### River Styx

- Passes up through a waterfall and blacks out.

#### Back in Avernus

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) calls Professor "E" on the sending stones and informs him that she is on her way out and she knows Draconic.
- The party chats a bit. Figuring out what Rinn wants to do. He also asks [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) if he is ready to leave the Hells now that he is a big man down here.
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin) compels [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) to attack Creed.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) tries to grapple Finn, and Horns turns into a snake and tries to stop her as well, but they cannot stop the juggernaut of the halfling.
- Val casts hold person on Finn to stop her from attacking Creed.

#### Preparing to Leave Avernus

- Gray wants to use the Plane Shift scroll that [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) gave him for safekeeping. He asks Rinn about it.
- Such magics are beyond Rinn's area of expertise, but he is worried the waters of the Styx might interfere with the casting.
- They get dropped off on the shore by Creed.
- Gray gives the scroll to Val, and the party makes ready to attempt to make their way home. Val begins to cast *Plane Shift*, but just then Graz'zt takes over control of the spell!

#### Argent Palace

- The party is whisked away from The Hells, but do not reach their intended destination. Instead, they materialize in strange realm in front of a colossal structure.
- Graz'zt himself stands on the steps of the palace, flanked by demons.
- He laughs at the party, and taunts Val.
- Gimble's scroll is expended, but Val calls upon her borrowed power to cast her own *Plane Shift* and teleports the party back the material plane. The sound of more laughter echoes as they again attempt to make it home.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Creed](/dnd/npcs/creed)
- [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt)
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Levistus](/dnd/npcs/levistus)
- [Ze'brak](/dnd/npcs/zebrak)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

## References
