---

author:
  - Jonathan
  - Tanner
date: 2022-12-07
description: In which Gray prepares for another encounter with the dragon fanboys.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Cause and Effect
  - Jefferson
  - Innocence
  - Master Elian
  - Mother
  - Mountain
  - The Cult of the Dragon
  - The Vigil
  - Unidius
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Neverwinter
summary: >
  The party spends some time in some of Neverwinter's most popular locations, such as the burned and flooded marina district, the ever-popular Jefferson's place (I forgot the name again), the Mage's College, and a long-abandoned farmstead a couple miles north of the city.
title: "Mission: Possible"
url: "/dnd/posts/2022/12/07/mission-possible"

---

_`DR ~1492-08-30 (Eleasis, Highsun)`_

## Summary

[Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) leads investigation into the bizarrely unseasonable snowfall, which is reportedly seen across the region. The party meets an old contact at a seedy nightclub, and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) uses this opportunity to reacquaint himself with drink and companionship. Back at the mage college, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) explains the delicate situation that [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) is in and recruits [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) as a contact for The Vigil to keep an eye on her welfare. [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) tries to redirect a growing sense of aggression by joining the local fight rings. Just before Rinn plans to leave to debrief his superiors on Graz'zt's attack, Gray asks the party to assist him with looking into reports of local Dragon Cult activity, which turns out to be much more than it would seem.

## Synopsis

### Recap

With [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) finally subdued, [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) teleports most of the party to the Mage College to begin the difficult work of attempting to remove Graz'zt's control over the wayward druid. Meanwhile, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) notices an unseasonal snowfall as he confronts [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/). Days pass, [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) explores the local temples seeking guidance; [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) covertly handles a few things on his own in Neverwinter; [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) assists the local druids in repairing the damage from the attack; and Rinn'thalas stands guard over an unconscious Val. When the druid finally awakens, she claims to be free of Graz'zt but has foul tidings for the party.

### Events

#### Information Gathering

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) asks around for some things.
    - She asks [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) about Sigil.
    - Rinn stated that he would look into the "Cause and Effect" maker's mark that [Master Elian Amaadon](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) identified as connected to the steel defender attack.
    - Oneshoe tracks down a temple to the sea to ask about the anomaly of the weather.
        - The temple is in the Marina District in western Neverwinter.
        - The Marina District is largely ruined after having been flooded to put out the fires caused by Val's rampage; buildings are unstable, boats are beached.
        - She enters a combination sailor's temple and dockhouse to chat up a salty old seadog, asks him if he knows where the snow's coming from.
        - "The sky" is his answer; it turns out the source of a freak snowstorm is a mystery to this sailor.
- OneShoe catches some of the falling snow in a vial and cobbles together a rudimentary alchemist kit from her poisoner's kit, and after some experimentation she discovers that it is, in fact, mundane snow.

#### Losing Innocence at Jefferson's Bar

- Oneshoe then goes towards the docks to talk to Jefferson to inquire further about the strange snow in Neverwinter.
    - Jefferson has a side piece next to him named Innocence.
    - They chat congenially for a bit as Oneshoe gets sloshed on a single *Hell and Back* cocktail.
    - Jefferson thinks the snow is weird, but he doesn't know why.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) sits down and starts to work on a drink. He will remain there into the night.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) talks to Jefferson about soul coins and where to get tailoring specifically for clothing with wing clearance.
    - "Bartleby the tailor" is Jefferson's tailor, and Horns is given a business card.
- Oneshoe gets wasted and slaps Innocence on the ass as she leaves.

#### Rinn Recruits Master Elian as a Contact

- The party (sans Gray) returns to the Neverwinter mage college to figure out whats going on.
- Rinn has a conversation with [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon) about the threat of Val.
    - Master E explains that while Val's choice was perhaps rooted in ignorance or naivete, she's not actually evil and he believes that the planes are safe from another of her [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt)-impelled rampages.
    - He further says that if she does turn to Graz'zt again, he would put her down himself.
    - Rinn explains that his organization - the Vigil - has less faith in Val than Master E, and that they're currently committed to eliminating her threat in a lethal manner. He explains that this is the same organization that Unidius is (kinda) pledged to, and that if Master E were to commit himself to the Vigil and to the supervision of Val, they would be amenable to not hunting her down.
    - Additionally, it would be much appreciated to have an operative in the city who isn't [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius).
    - Master E agrees after explaining that he cannot commit the resources of the [Mage's College](/dnd/locations/mage-college) to the Vigil, and Rinn inducts him by giving him a nascent Amulet of the Vigil, part of the modified _sending stone_ that Rinn uses to communicate with his order.
    - We learn here that Elian's last name is Amaadon, which means "silverflower."

#### Zed's Shenanigans

- A wild [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) appears.
- He seems to have been feeling on edge since the Hells.
- Zed tries to let out aggression by joining the local fighting rings and fiercely doing yoga.

#### Gray's Partying

- A very inebriated Gray brings some of the performers back from Jefferson's Bar to the mage college.
- Their carousing is a large factor in the party getting kicked out from staying at the college post-recovery of Val.

#### Investigating Rumors of Dragon Cult Activity

- Just as Rinn prepares to leave to return to the council of The Vigil, Gray remembers that he is supposed to check out possible Cult of the Dragon activity at a remote farm outside of Neverwinter.
- He asks the party to come with him on his investigation.
- Looks like the farm was damaged by fire many years back. It looks abandoned.
- Rinn and Oneshoe scout ahead. They blend into the shadows and notice a beefy orc hiding deep in the corner of the silo oriented to look towards the road.
- The pair retreat a distance on an oblique angle to watch the door, and Rinn signals Gray via the *Horn of Silent Alarm*.

#### Gray Calls Out the Hidden Figure

- Gray susses out the situation. He asks Horns and Zed to retreat up the road as if they are leaving him. He tells them to make sure they don't get away.
- Gray shifts his disguise from the old man he had been wearing to another form - that of the late Gray.
- Seemingly alone, Gray makes a show of examining the farmhouse, but there is no response.
- He then walks towards the silo, with again no response.
- Walking yet closer, he calls out to the hidden figure, "I'm not a fan of games." His accent has changed.
- No response for awhile. Finally the figure talks. They say they are interested in talking.
- There is some banter. The hidden figure boasts that Gray may not be the one to do his job.
- Suddenly Gray is hit with some force that assaults his senses, but Gray shakes it off.
- Finally, a figure emerges, a full-blooded orc. Gray recognizes her: a woman named Mountain, a wrathful inquisitor bearing a big fucking axe.
- They trade some barbs.
- Gray knows this person, and asks why they are here. He also said, "Mother has already voiced her displeasure towards me." 
- The figure says that Gray has been difficult to track.
- The Mountain says, "Try not to stay away too long. Big things are afoot. You might want to be home for them."
- Supposedly "months away" from something big.
- The Mountain asks Gray if they should catch up, and he says sure.
- She approaches him and they make to walk toward Neverwinter together.

#### And Then There Was Zed

- Meanwhile, Zed, astride Bullwinkle, climbs up a tree on an angle to form a gigantic orcish/elkish flag.
- The Mountain sees this and is dumbfounded. After a beat, she says, "What the hell?" or something to that effect. She then motions to continue walking with Gray towards the city.
- Zed then remembers that Gray had told him not to let the quarry get away, so Zed decides to charge the Mountain with his lance. Roll initiative!

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)

### Returning

- [Jefferson](/dnd/npcs/jefferson)
- [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/)

### New

- [Innocence](/dnd/npcs/Innocence)
- [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain)

### Mentioned

- "Cause and Effect"
- The Cult of the Dragon
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/)
- [Graz'zt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt/)
- [Harold](/dnd/npcs/harold)
- Mother
- The Vigil
- [Unidius](/dnd/npcs/unidius/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) gives [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) a nascent *Amulet of the Vigil*.

## Trivia

## References
