---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-05-24
description: In which the party gains a gnome.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Caerwyn
  - Queen Titania
  - Rinn'thalas
  - Ranith
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Phandalin
  - Tresendar Manor
summary: >
  Finn's message is foretold, a gnome returns, and a path is chosen.
title: A Study in Synthwave
url: /dnd/posts/2023/05/24/a-gnomes-return

---

## Summary

_`DR 1492-09-05 (Elient, The Fading)`_

[Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/)'s displays his latest masterpiece. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) opens up more about his family. A desperate message from Finn is foreseen, and a gnome returns. The party considers their options, and a bold, but likely foolish plan is made.

## Synopsis

### Recap

The dust has barely settled from the battle with The Revenant, yet the party quickly goes their separate ways. [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) takes a weary [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) out for drinks; [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) tails [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) as she is pulled into a suspicious conversation with [Brooke](/dnd/npcs/brooke/); [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) assesses the damage to his room; and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) has a vision in the basement. The party finally comes together again the next afternoon, and Gray admits to the group: this has all been his fault, and he needs to leave. A great amount of discord follows. Help is sought from absent allies with unclear results. The party fights about direction but fails to reach any consensus.

### Events

#### Party Discord Aftermath

- Not having found any answers, the heated conversation hits a pause, and some party members begin to disperse.
- Tensions remain high.

#### Psithyron's Latest Masterpiece

- Just then, [Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/) enters the room, providing a distraction from the party's discord.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) had commissioned more artwork from the imp, and he was eager to show it off.
- He had created another lewd image of [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/), this time in a something like a synthwave vibe, with lots of pinks and blues.
- Oneshoe didn't seem overly impressed with the new direction.
- A member of the party chides the imp and tells it to go away. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) rises to his [Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/)'s defense and claims that the imp has just as much a right to be there as the rest of them.

#### Gray Opens up More

- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) relates more information about his family.
- The party learns that Gray has a twin sister named Ranith (sp?).

#### A Gnome's Return

- While the discussion continues, a small figure apparates somewhere within the lower levels of the manor and then approaches the loud voices carrying from upstairs.
- As they enter the room, the newcomer is magically shrouded and remains unseen, yet the arrival does not go unnoticed. [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) reacts to an apparent threat and shines his *Lantern of Revealing* about the room, but, curiously, the item fails to reveal the invisible figure. However, despite this, Gray fully orients towards their location.
- Feeling exposed, the figure drops the invisibility. 
- There stands a gnome, just over three-feet tall and with a familiar mess of spiky hair. Gimble has returned.
- At first he appears to be much like the same gnome who left the party in Avernus, but a closer look reveals differences. The gnome now wears darker robes and is clutching a transparent staff in his right hand. His eyes seem wild as they dart about the room. Every few moments, his left hand twitches.
- Gimble greets the party, but they seem a bit wary of him. Gimble says, "Hi, Finn," and begins to approach, but she holds back at first. Then Not-Bailey blinks into the space, sniffs at Gimble, and then starts to pant happily, which deflates some of the tension. Gimble gives Finn a hug.
- Oneshoe remains visibly suspicious.
- Suddenly Zed mounts Bullwinkle, scoops up the returned gnome, and rides triumphantly around the room, much to the wizard's consternation.
- Jumping down, Gimble asks the party what danger they are in. He explains that yesterday as he was studying his book, he saw some images in his book that appeared to be drawn by Finn and indicated they were in trouble. Finn produces [the drawings that she had just made](/media/dnd/finns-drawings-to-gimble.pdf). "Yes, that's what I saw," says the gnome.
- He again asks what danger they are in. The party doesn't seem to have a cohesive answer.
- Gimble addresses the group.
- He apologizes for the manner in which he abandoned the party, describes his descent into paranoia, and ends with an impassioned speech about "being tired of running." Gimble wants to seek out and deal with the dangers of the world.
- Gray asks more about the details of what Gimble has been up to. Strangely, Gimble's recollection of events goes foggy when Gray asks about the messenger he sent to the Hells. Gimble does not seem to remember [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/).
#### Finding Direction

- The party discusses the various dangers they are aware of, including Gimble and [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx/)'s pursuers, the plot of The Wolves, the Shard of Mystra, [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)'s abyssal note, and the rising power of Winter in the Feywild.

#### Some Kind of Plan

- They decide to investigate The Wolves. Gimble recommends traveling to Candlekeep to find what they can on *The Shard of Mystra* and the Wolves, themselves. Further, he floats the idea of doing this very openly, hoping to bait the pursuers into revealing themselves.
- Gimble sends a message to [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx/), who had been scrying on the group. He asks what she thinks. Nyx tries to dissuade Gimble from going directly after the pursuers, stating it is foolish. She has been doing this along time and knows better. Gimble doesn't back down, but Nyx will not join in.
- The party decides to go through with the plan. Gimble sends a message to [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt/) informing her of the party's intention to meet her at Candlekeep and the fact that they may have some hostile pursuers at their back.
- As the party makes preparations, Gimble decides to scry on the pursuer to get more information before they head out.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
    - Not-Bailey
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
    - [Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)
    - Bullwinkle

### Returning

- [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt/)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx/)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Caerwyn](/dnd/npcs/caerwyn-cadogan/) 
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania/)
- Ranith
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- The Wolves

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

## References
