---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-11-08
description: In which Finn grows feathers.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Benedora Stoneforge
  - Cassandra Belacourt
  - Jay the Clerk
  - Nyx
  - Peanut
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
  - Silverymoon
  - Rivermoot
summary: >
  With portents that Nyx may be in danger, Gimble plans to leave Candlekeep. Before they leave, Val receives an intriguing quest from the Head Reader, and Cassandra Belacourt gives the party a faster means to travel towards Nyx's likely location. The party briefly pass through Silverymoon before attempting to track down a hidden Nxy before they are too late.
title: Flying into the Night
url: /dnd/posts/2023/11/08/flying-into-the-night

---


## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_; _[Silverymoon](/dnd/locations/silverymoon)_; _[Rivermoot](/dnd/locations/rivermoot)_

_DR 1492-09-06 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Failing to Learn About Val's Family

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) gives [Gimble](dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) a stack of books to distract him from the troubling news about [Nyx](dnd/npcs/nyx). One of them is a book on [The Jade Arbor](dnd/locations/the-jade-arbor), which prompts Gimble to start asking questions about Val's family.
- The rest of the party joins in and a long conversation ensues with Val about the Jade Arbor. The party understands less after the conversation.
- Val scares [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) about death.

### Cassandra Arrives

- [Cassandra](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt) arrives at the suite. She hands over a ledger of public teleportations circles.
    - Waterdeep
    - Baldur's Gate
    - Silverymoon
    - Athkatla
    - Luskan (not always reliable, warning)
    - Phlan
    - Mirabar
    - Yatar
    - Myth Drannor
- They chat a bit about the *Bag of Devouring*.
- Cassandra takes happily takes a chicken leg from the table and takes her leave.

### Research Delivery

- A message arrives for Val about her inquiry for the Peregrine's Guide. It states that she needs to wait two hours to meet with a Head Reader about the request.

### Val's Meeting with a Head Reader

- Val see's a human male named [Teles](/dnd/npcs/teles), who was waiting to speak with Val.
- He pulls out two tomes from an Adventurer named Alkazaar. One is a book of his adventures. The other is a thinner volume called Alkazaar's Appendix. It includes a story about a lost golem. There is information about a *Nether Scroll*.
- He set out to find one, but he was unsuccessful.
- The library would trade the reading of the Peregrine's guide if Val could retrieve the lost Nether Scroll.
- The sage speaks of Alkazaar traveling the anaruch desert.
- The golem would recognize the master's name and commands.
- Supposedly it is in purple worm territory.
- However, he inscribed a magical tracer on the golem.
- Locate the lost golem and find the nether scroll.
- The final page of the book has symbols around an illustration of the golem; this is the last clue left by Alkazaar.
- Teles mentions that they have the Peregrine's Guide to Wisdom.
- Val dubs Teles, T-book.
- Val asked to take the copy of the Appendix.
- Teles considers it, but asks for collateral. Val proffers a purple dragon scale from a shadow dragon in Hell.

### Val Returns

- She asks the party to go to the desert in the future.
- Gimble thinks the Nether Scroll may be related to the Netherese.
- Gimble takes a look at book and thinks he might be able to understand it in time.
- Gimble prepares to travel to Silverymoon.

### Checking Out

- Gimble checks out with [Jay the Clerk](/dnd/npcs/jay-the-clerk) at the desk.
- He and Finn goes to the Emerald Door to tell [Benedora](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge) that they are leaving.
- Finn asks to say goodbye to [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut).
- Peanut shows up and raises her up in the air to give her a big hug.
- Back in the quarters, Gimble Teleports them to Silverymoon.

### Teleported to Silverymoon

- The party apparates in a new location. The party feels chilly. Outside, in an open town square. The night sky above. A well-worn road system. Cobblestones. A beautiful elvish city.
- There is a pair of tall towers down the road in one direction.
- A fair number of people are milling about. They look with mild curiousity.
- A few guards hail the party.
- Finn immediately confuses them with talk about friendly trees.
- The guards ask for names and their business. Gimble says they are headed to Triboar. The guards recommend taking the south gate.
- The guards ask if we need an escort. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) declines.
- The guards say something about dropping the shield. Olaf the guard uses a staff to drop a shield which they had not previously noticed.
- Gimble pays 10 GP/per person. Finn pays and extra 20 GP for her and [Not-Bailey](/dnd/npcs/not-bailey).
- Finn sees Gray doing a [Rinn'thalas](dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon) impression and she decides to disguise herself as Rinn as well.

### Leaving the Gates

- Val finds a "regular-ass-oak", and names it Fred. She remembers this for later.
- Val casts *Wind Walk* and they travel along the road towards Rivermoot.
- Arriving near Rivermoot, Val notes a quaking aspen she names Ted.
- The party observes the town. Many of the buildings are built on top of pilings.
- The Headwater is the tavern.
- Gimble communicates with [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx). Let's her know they are in Rivermoot. Asks if they can meet up. Nyx hasn't arrived yet. She is camped out in the foothills to the west.

### Looking for Nyx

- Gray asks for something of Nyx's to catch her scent. Gimble offers some scribbled notes of hers.
- The party shifts back to wind form and tries to find her location.
- The first location there is no sign.
- After an hour of searching, Gray picks up a scent.

By this point, the search has gone into the night.

_DR 1492-09-07 (Elient, The Fading)_

### Nyx Leads the Party to Her Shelter

- After some maneuvering, Nyx finally comes out of hiding and guides the party into her hidden shelter.

### Crafting a Potion

- Finn and Gimble craft a feather potion.
- Finn immediately downs it. She is covered in white with black tipped feathers.

### Gray Spies the Pursuer

- Sitting motionless in his hideout, Gray's hackle's suddenly go up.
- He sees, perhaps only 10 feet out from his tree, some kind of movement. A part of him tries to dismiss it.
- Gray can just make out a hunched, twisted figure on all fours. It has a bandage covering the top half of its head. There is a mostly human mouth, and a tongue a bit too long. The figure is making its way slowly northward.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Benedora Stoneforge](dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge)
- [Cassandra](dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt)
- [Jay the Clerk](/dnd/npcs/jay-the-clerk)
- [Nyx](dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [Peanut](dnd/npcs/peanut)
- The unnamed, hooded pursuer

### New

- [Teles](/dnd/npcs/teles)

### Mentioned

- [Rinn'thalas](dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment  | Count              | Item                       | Source | Destination        | Notes                                           |
| ----------- | ------------------ | -------------------------- | ------ | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Transferred | 1                  | Purple Shadow Dragon Scale | Val    | Teles             |                                                 |
| Acquired    | 1                  | *Alkazaar's Appendix*      | Teles | Val                |                                                 |
| Transferred | 10 GP/party member | Gold                       | Gimble | Silverymoon Guards |                                                 |
| Transferred | 20 GP              | Gold                       | Finn   | Silverymoon Guards | Extra donation on behalf of Finn and Not-Bailey |

## Trivia
