---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-10-25
description: In which knowledge brings disillusion.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Peanut
  - Benedora Stoneforge
  - Kei Tigersteel
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
summary: >
  Returned from their literary adventure, the party concludes their current research within the inner library, Val considers the risks of possession, and Gimble gains insight but loses something in the process.
title: A Remnant of Faith
url: /dnd/posts/2023/10/25/a-remnant-of-faith

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-06 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Back in the Library

- The party continues to get their bearings after returning from the strange adventure within *The Lore of Lurue*. Their guide, [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut), has not yet returned.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) decides to quickly stash away all of the letters that [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) had written referencing their troubles with the book.
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) uses *Mage Hand* to carefully replace *The Lore of Lurue* back deep on its shelf.
- A few moments later, Peanut returns with another armful of texts about [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra). The owlbear does not show any sign that it was aware of what had happened to the party moments before.
- Gimble takes a look through the latest batch of research on Mystra. He searches for information about the Chosen of Mystra and any possible connection to [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx) but finds nothing. There is more general lore and even a children's book on the subject, but nothing stands out as directly relevant to Gimble's questions.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) takes a different approach and carefully inspects the books themselves, looking for any telling marks left by other patrons. She does notice some small defacements here and there, mostly minor stuff like, "Justin was here." Oneshoe snickers at this. She decides to join in and adds a few delicate strokes to change a word in one book to her name instead. Peanut is close by as she does this and the guide almost notices, but luckily the owlbear's attention is distracted by the remaining peanuts in Oneshoe's possession instead.
- Still thinking about the strange offer from a voice in her head, [Val](/dnd/characters/val) engages Peanut with some requests for research, including information about [Bahamut](/dnd/npcs/bahamut). She also asks about if anyone in [Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep) has been possessed by reading certain books. Peanut's affirmative response does not reassure her.
- In conversation, Peanut mentions [Miirym](/dnd/npcs/miirym), the guardian dragon of Candlekeep. The guide also reminds the party that the loaned *Driftglobes* mustn't leave the Emerald Door.
- Peanut starts to guide the party towards a different area for Val's requests.
- As they walk along, Gimble keeps a sharp eye on the surroundings. At times he notices something strange at the corners of his vision. He feels there might be a spirit haunting the area.

### An Expensive Lesson

- Peanut leads the party up and out through a courtyard to another tower. The party climbs up a spiral staircase into a new area filled with shining colors streaming through stained-glass windows.
- Val receives some books about Bahamut, including *The Trial of the Silver Dragon*.
- She pulls out 1000 gold and sets it aside as she inspects the the book. After flipping through a few chapters, Val finds that there is a hole carved within the pages of the book.
- Hesitating, Val asks Gimble if he knows how to "un-possess" someone. This leads to a long conversation with the party about whether or not she should proceed. Despite the party's warnings, Val wants to go forward with the deal with the mysterious voice. However, she asks for any protection against possession that the party may have.
- Gimble casts *Protection from Evil and Good* upon Val.
- Val places 1000 gold in the book and then shuts the cover. The coins immediately disappear.
- A few moments pass, and Val doesn't feel any change. In fact, nothing seems to have happened at all. Confused, Val says, "I don't hear a voice in my head." 
- Suddenly, there is a voice in her head. It says, "when you go outside, watch the birds. You can be like them." The voice then goes silent.
- Wanting more, Val throws another 50 gold in the book. The coins promptly disappear, but nothing else happens. Val tries again, this time placing a small note asking who the voice is along with another 50 gold. Again, the coins disappear, the note remains. Still silence.
- Val shows the hole in the book to Peanut. Peanut is alarmed and asks if Val defaced the book, but Val promptly denies this.
- Oneshoe examines the book more closely. She finds that someone has gone through a lot of trouble to disguise any tracks.
- The party suspects that Val may have been had.
- Having exhausted their current research, they decide to leave the inner library.
- As they approach the exit, Gray nonchalantly inquires about the where the restricted sections of the library are.

### Returning through the Emerald Door

- As the party leaves the Emerald Door, [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge) is at her post. She winks at Oneshoe as they pass. Benedora asks if Oneshoe found what she was looking for. Then she approaches closer and asks with a wink if she was looking for anything more. Oneshoe declines and walks away. 
- Above, the birds freely travel from within and without the courtyard.
- Gimble draws Val's attention to this and mentions how this behavior contrasts with the claims of the gate guards about the powerful wards around Candlekeep barring entrance to the fortress except through the gate.

### Catching up on Research Results

- The party returns to see a stack of books outside the door to their suite. Val picks them up as they enter the chambers.
- There is some information about the history of Val's family. The title Grove Keeper is held by the one responsible for the grove, and potential future grove keepers are known as *Acorns*. Val's mother is the grove keeper. Val is like the fourth in line, after her sisters. It appears [Ralain](/dnd/npcs/ralain) was one of her recent antecedents who died about 100 years ago.
- There was a major conflict for control of [The Jade Arbor](/dnd/locations/the-jade-arbor) in the past. There was an abyssal incursion and a thwarted attempt to pull the Jade Arbor and its environs into the abyssal plain. The line of the Grove Keeper was almost broken during this conflict.
- Val turns her attention to her other research requests. She gets a basic primer into the [Sigil](/dnd/locations/sigil), golemancy, and  [Grazzt](/dnd/npcs/grazzt), as well as some info on ancient dwarven brewing recipes. She decides to have copies made of the dwarven brewing recipes and sent to [Neverwinter](/dnd/locations/neverwinter) to be gifts for [G-Rock](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker).
- Val also learns that [The Hells](/dnd/locations/the-nine-hells-of-baator) exist under the whims of [Asmodeus](/dnd/npcs/asmodeus), and he is able to monitor any communication out from that plane.
- Val learns that Candlekeep does indeed have a few of the famous Peregrine's Guides, but access to them is severely restricted.
- As this goes on, Gimble casts a *Sending* to Nyx, and learns that she is closing in on [Rivermoot](/dnd/locations/rivermoot). Feeling that he has gained more questions than answers from his time in Candlekeep, Gimble decides to seek out more guidance and heads out to the Temple of Oghma.

### Revelations at the Temple of Oghma

- Arriving at the temple threshold, Gimble pauses a moment to observe the space--the calmness of the interior and the quiet contemplation of its patrons. Gimble notes the contrast between the peacefulness here and his own sense of unease.
- Gimble approaches [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel) and asks if he may make use of one of the private rooms again. Kei kindly states that they had kept one open for him. 
- Gimble secludes himself in the room, takes a moment to focus his thoughts, and begins his ritual to reach out for answers. 
- Eventually, Gimble finds his consciousness carried away and in the presence of the divine light of Oghma. Gimble gives thanks, and asks his questions.

> 1. Where should we go next to stop the hunters from finding Nyx?
>     - Rivermoot
> 2. Is Nyx my sister?
>     - (there is a pause) No
> 3. What is Nyx?
>     - The Shard
> 4. What is the Shard?
>     - The Remnant.
> 5. Why did she pretend to be my sister?
>     - (overlapping words come forth) trauma...fear...safety..belonging...protection.

- As the ritual ends, Gimble stays in the room quietly for some time absorbed in his thoughts. At some point Gimble realizes that someone had left a cup of tea for him. He looks up at the teacup and gives a weak smile, which soon fades. He gets up and instinctively reaches out for the cup with his left hand, which shakes badly. Noticing this, he instead reaches out with his right hand to pick up the cup. Somehow it still shakes, and the tea spills upon the stone floor. Gimble leaves the room. Walking through the main hall, he passes by Kei and thanks her for her kindness. He also apologizes for the mess in the room and walks away. Kei may have said something as he left, but he couldn't make it out.
- Gimble walks out into the Court of Air and begins to walk back to the party's chambers, but he stops. Instead, Gimble spends some time alone in the party's rented space in the Pillars of Pedagogy. 

### Val's Love of Language

- Val rekindles her quest to learn more languages and launches several new requests with the Candlekeep staff to further that goal.
- Val calls [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon). He informs him that she want to "collect all the languages," and asks for his assistance.
- Master Elian states that there may be some folks at the college that can help her to learn a few exotic languages if she so desires.

### Rumination and Cocoa

- The party wonders where Gimble may have gone.
- Eventually, Gimble leaves the Pillars of Pedagogy and goes to the Emerald Door. He puts in request for a ledger of public teleportation circles.
- Gimble follows this with a *Sending* to [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt) asking for a favor to help him get to Rivermoot. Cassandra agrees to meet him at the lodging to discuss, and Gimble makes his his back.
- Gray is assisting Finn in building a mighty pillow fort.
- Just as Gimble walks in the door, Gray throws a chicken leg towards him, shouting, "Here, Gimble!"
- Absorbed in his own thoughts, Gimble gets hit full in the face with the chicken leg. He doesn't seem to react and walks a few more paces into the room, looking at the floor.
- Oneshoe asked what happened.
- Gimble fills them in about his experience at the Temple of Oghma. He looks forlorn as he is still processing the information.
- Gimble tells them he needs to get to Rivermoot. He doesn't really understand what is going on, but he knows that Nyx, or whatever she is, is important to the plot of [The Wolves](/dnd/factions/the-wolves), and probably more than that. He needs to get to the bottom of it.
- Oneshoe is concerned that Gimble just wants to drop everything and leave in the dead of night.
- Gimble says that he is waiting on a few requests to help him travel more quickly, so there will be some time for preparations. He mentions that Cassandra may come by to help.
- Oneshoe offers a cup of her "famous" cocoa to the frazzled Gimble as they wait.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge)
- [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel)
- [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Bahamut](/dnd/npcs/bahamut)
- [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt)
- [Miirym](/dnd/npcs/miirym)
- [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [The Wolves](/dnd/factions/the-wolves)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment  | Count          | Item        | Source                       | Destination                              | Notes                                             |
| ----------- | -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Transferred | 1100           | Gold        | [Val](/dnd/characters/val) | Hole in *The Trial of the Silver Dragon* | The coins vanished                                |
| Transferred | 1/party member | *Driftglobe* | party members                 | [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut)                         | Returned to Peanut upon leaving the inner library |

## Trivia

