---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-06-07
description: In which Finn does her Gimble impression.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Jarvis III
  - Nyx
  - Rubella Blackhand
  - The Wolves
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Phandalin
  - Tresendar Manor
  - Baldur's Gate
  - Candlekeep
summary: >
  After a failed attempt to scry on the pursuers, the party attempts to sow rumours in Baldur's Gate before travelling on to the fortress of Candlekeep.
title: Can I Get a Receipt?
url: /dnd/posts/2023/06/07/can-i-get-a-receipt

---

_`DR 1492-09-05 (Elient, The Fading)`_

## Summary

[Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/) fails to scry upon his pursuer, yet the party pushes on and teleports to Baldur's Gate, where they make some noise about researching The Shard of Mystra. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) enhances his wildshape ability, and [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) continues to evangelize the way of yoga. After the brief stop, they *Wind Walk* the remainder of their journey, alighting just outside the fortress of Candlekeep. 

## Synopsis

### Recap

[Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/)'s displays his latest masterpiece. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) opens up more about his family. A desperate message from Finn is foreseen, and a gnome returns. The party considers their options, and a bold, but likely foolish plan is made.

### Events

#### Failed Scrying on Pursuer

-  [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/) plans to travel to Candlekeep with the hope of accomplishing two goals: first, to research more about The Wolves and The Shard of Mystra, and, second, to draw out the pursuers and hopefully bait them into a trap.
- In order to gain more information Gimble the Diviner attempts to cast *Scrying* on one of the pursuers hunting [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx/).
- Returning to his tower, Gimble produces a small, worn, wooden chest. He opens it, revealing what appears to be scattered, jagged pieces of glass within. As Gimble weaves threads of magic, the pieces begin to vibrate. After a moment, they rise up into the air, forming a constellation of the small, rotating fragments. When Gimble's magic reaches a crescendo, the pieces snap together, forming a shattered mirror. 
- Clouded images swirl as Gimble sends out his magical senses towards his target. Just as he focuses the spell, there is a sound of breaking glass and the pieces fall back into the box.
- The spell was blocked. It seems they have magical protection against scrying.
- Gimble is frustrated, but he decides to go ahead with the plan anyway.
- He asks if the party wants to join and if they are ready travel towards Candlekeep.

#### Teleportation to Baldur's Gate

- Gimble transports the party to a known teleportation circle outside Baldur's Gate. They arrive in the Stonyeyes district outside the Basilisk Gate of the wall surrounding Lower City.
- The group is immediately hailed by guards demanding the payment of a teleportation fee. Gimble pays the portal fee for the party.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) calls out to one of the guards and demands a receipt for the teleportation tax.
- The party decides to split up and enter the city to make some noise about Gimble openly searching for the Shard of Mystra. They will meet back near the teleportation circle in an hour. First, however, they must gain entrance to the city through the Basilisk gate.

####  The Basilisk Gate

- Approaching the gate, they are hailed by one of the guards, who they learn goes by [Rubella Blackhand](/dnd/npcs/rubella-blackhand/). Val calls them "RB".
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) takes the lead in engaging the guard.
- The party pays an entry fee and passes through the gate into the lower city.

#### Finn-Gimble's Secret Mission

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) uses *Disguise Self* to take Gimble's form and heads out with [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/), who opts to take the form of [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/).
- Finn-Gimble ambles into the Elfsong Tavern. She steps upon a stool and calls out to the room, "I am Gimble and I am looking for the Shard of Mystra!"
- Most the of the patrons pay her little heed.
- Finn-Gimble spends some time interrogating a patron named Jarvis III. He and his namesakes have lived in the area all their lives. The man doesn't seem to know much, but Finn presses him a bit, which is a bit intimidating. Despite this, not much is learned.
- Finn-Gimble and Gray stop in a few more places before heading back to join the others.

#### Val and Horns Shopping Trip

- Meanwhile, [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) and Val going on a mini shopping trip.
- Horns picks up some items that will enhance his wildshapes.
- Val has some humorous conversation with the shopkeeper.

#### Zed Preaches the Path of Yoga

- Zed attempts to convince The Flaming Fist to join his yoga movement.
- He then goes to Garmult's House of Mastery and continues to preach his cause, to some success.

#### Travel to Candlekeep

- The party gathers and decides how they wish to travel the remainder of the way to Candlekeep.
- Val recommends using *Wind Walk* to travel there quickly.
- Gimble is a bit leery of this option, but he relents.
- Val casts her spell, transforming the party info gaseous forms. They take to the skies and fly towards Candlekeep.
- After a short time, the party alights near a set of trees near the fortress of knowledge.
- The druids take some time to "get to know" a few of the larger trees to facilitate future travel options.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)

### Returning

### New

- [Rubella Blackhand](/dnd/npcs/rubella-blackhand/)
- Jarvis III

### Mentioned

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [The Wolves](/dnd/npcs/the-wolves/)

## Quotations

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/): (to a merchant) Five to ten thousand gold gets your skirts blown?

## Inventory

- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) acquires:
    - some items that will enhance his wildshape ability.
    - receipts of the portal tax to Baldur's Gate.

## Trivia

## References

