---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-05-10
description: In which Gray learns it isn't *all* his fault.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Gundren Rockseeker
  - Brooke
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Phandalin
  - Tresendar Manor
  - Ale Echo Cave
  - Sleeping Giant Inn
summary: >
  The revenant has fallen. Gray reveals why he must leave. The party falls into deeper disarray.
title: Mea Culpa
url: /dnd/posts/2023/05/10/mea-culpa

---

_`DR 1492-09-04 (Elient, The Fading)`_

## Summary

The dust has barely settled from the battle with The Revenant, yet the party quickly goes their separate ways. [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) takes a weary [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) out for drinks; [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) tails [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) as she is pulled into a suspicious conversation with [Brooke](/dnd/npcs/brooke/); [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) assesses the damage to his room; and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) has a vision in the basement. The party finally comes together again the next afternoon, and Gray admits to the group: this has all been his fault, and he needs to leave. A great amount of discord follows. Help is sought from absent allies with unclear results. The party fights about direction but fails to reach any consensus.

## Synopsis

### Recap

The revenant has been torn from his dragon mount, yet fury drives him on. Underground, [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) stays out of reach of The Revenant's vengeance; however, this only redirects the wrath towards the rest of the party. The dragon's assaults are merciless. If not for [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/), [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) would be dead, and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) and [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) aren't faring much better. A ghost stalks Oneshoe. Gray tries more desperate aerial maneuvers to stay out the dragon's blast zone, only to lose his gryphon and be targeted by a new powerful foe arriving on the field (and accidentally by Oneshoe). The dragon banks around for another attack, and the situation looks grim. Then, [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) arrives on the scene. He straight neutronizes the ghost and calls forth his berserker horde to protect Gray and clear most of the battlefield. Not to be outdone, Horns takes a bold step and *Polymorphs* the flying dragon into a small toad and luckily manages to catch and restrain the falling form. The tide has turned. Seeing her moment, Val strikes down the revenant and brings an end to the conflict.

### Events

#### Aftermath of the Revenant's Assault

- The party shares some brief banter as they take in the results of the battle.
- [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) regards the damaged sourthern wall of [Tresendar Manor](/obsidian/locations/tresendar-manor/) and chides the party for not using proper dwarven stone for its construction.
- He asks [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) go with him to get some ale, and they depart. 

#### Finn and Brooke Have a Drink

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) notices some furtive movement at the corner of her vision. She *rolls* down the hill to close on the figure.
- Finn recognizes [Brooke](/dnd/npcs/brooke/), who took over *The Sleeping Giant Inn*.
- Finn decides to tackle her and succeeds.
- Brooke and Finn have a conversation. Brooke explains that she came by because she was concerned because of the dragon.
- The two walk back together and go into the inn. Brooke locks the door behind them.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) has been tailing them unnoticed. She sneaks up to a window, quietly opens its, and slips inside.
- In Finn's head, [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin/) expresses some frustration that he hasn't had a chance to "fuck up some devils" lately.
- Brooke pours each of them a very large glass of wine. It seems quite strong, but Finn downs it. They have another.
- Oneshoe notices that Brooke may have slipped something into Finn's drink. Still, she chooses to wait and observe further.
- Brooke starts asking some questions and seems to show a great interest in learning more about about [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/), whom Brooke pointedly refers to as "Hael".
    - (Finn previously let Gray's real name slip to Brooke back in the spa episode.)
- Finn doesn't seem to react to the usage of his true name. However, instead of answering Brooke, Finn turns the conversation to Bailey and Not Bailey. She starts enumerating her friends.
- Finn asks if Brooke knows [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/). Brooke claims she doesn't know anyone by that name.
- Oneshoe decides to snoop about a bit and begins to pad softly along the ceiling with her *Slippers of Spider Climbing*. Unfortunately, she brushes against a burr in the wood and makes a slight noise.
- Brooke takes notice and calls out saying, "You should come on down and join us for a drink."
- Oneshoe gracefully slips down and snatches the glass away from Finn.
- They exchange a few words, but it is not long before Oneshoe bristles at Brooke.
- Oneshoe throws Finn over her shoulder and exits out the window like a boss.

#### Gray Surveys the Basement

- Though it has been a scant few minutes since an undead horde had attacked the manor, Gray and [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) are surprised to find themselves alone.
- Gray goes down to the basement to check if the cistern is still fouled. He finds that the waters have cleared, and in the bottom of the pool sits a *Decanter of Endless Water*, which he retrieves. Strangely, no trace of the rusalka remains.
- Perhaps wondering what was real, Gray investigates the area and finds a very real and very dead raven. He employs *Grim Psychometry* upon the form of the crow to see what he can learn, this time expending some of his own blood to augment the rite. After a moment, the watercolor tattoos upon his arms begin to animate and project light upon the wall. It seems The Nameless Wolf is granting a vision. Gray sees the porcelain mask of the Raven Queen and hears the flutter of wings. Then there is another familiar face, one that Gray has not seen in a very long time. He sees the face of his mother, but just for the briefest moment.
- At seeing the flash of his mother's face, Gray has a strong feeling that he should not trust the white (?) raven.
- Gray then goes upstairs and throws the birds's remains into a fireplace.
- He finds Horns in his room, assessing the damage.
- Gray wonders aloud why they hit Horns' room. Horns says it was probably just random.
- Gray says he is going to sleep in the bathtub.

#### Val and Gundren at The Ale Echo Cave

- Val and Gundren are downing some tankards at the bar. Val shares that she is thinking about building a stone tower that only she lives in.
- Gundren says that sounds great, but how about having an inverse tower that goes beneath the earth. More secure. Val's not sure about that.
- Gundren is putting on a front like he can keep up with Val as usual, but the near-death experience from the dragon has taken the life out of him. He is pale and drowsy. Val decides he should go home.

#### Oneshoe Sees a Lot of Gray

- Oneshoe returns to the manor and looks for Gray, but doesn't find him in his room or in the common areas.
- Horns says Gray is in the bathroom.
- Oneshoe goes there and insists on entering. She opens the door to find Gray sitting in the bathtub, naked. He makes no move to change that.
- Oneshoe relates the story of Brooke getting Finn drunk to learn about Gray.
- The have a charged conversation. He says they'll discuss it in the morning.

#### The Next Afternoon

- Gray wakes up with his *Studded Leather of Borrowed Time* taking its due. He might be getting a bit used to the dreadful process. He still screams.
- Oneshoe sleeps in until around noon or so.
- Most of the party finds themselves around the table scrounging up brunch.
- Val saunters in last, finally bringing the party together after the great battle with The Revenant the previous day.
- Oneshoe tells the party that she saved Finn from being apparently drugged.
- [Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/) apparates and says some snide remark. Gray asks for him to leave, but Horns refuses. He says that the imp belongs just as much as anyone.

#### Gray Comes Clean

- After some bickering, Gray gets everyone's attention. He says, "I'm sorry I keep almost getting us all killed." He thinks that the entire attack orchestrated by The Revenant was meant to assassinate Gray.
- Finn interjects and tries to relate what she remembers of the conversation with Brook.
- Gray says it is safer for everyone if he leaves.
- He thinks Hell happened because he helped break the portal. He thinks Willabee the Weather Gnome retreated to the Feywild to escape the people Gray is connected to.
- Gray says that everything bad happened to the party is because of him.
- Suddenly, Oneshoe slaps Gray in the face. Gray says he deserves that.
- Finn lays down on the ground and starts screaming. She crawls over to Gray and wraps her arms around his leg.
- Most members of the party notice that as Finn is screaming the shadows in the room start to grow a bit longer and the light in the room a few shades a dimmer.
- Gray notices the scent of divinity in the room during the effect.
- Val gets slightly more depressed. She yells and Gray and says he has a martyr complex.
- Gray keeps pushing to leave. He explains that he is at fault for everything. That is why he pushes so hard in combat, heedless of risk to himself. He's trying to die again.
- The party gives him a hard time and downplays his concerns, but they say he shouldn't go.
- Gray says, "Fine!". He agrees to stay, but on a condition. The party has to knowingly accept they want in on the danger he brings. He wants to hear each person say it.
- While this serious discussion goes on, Oneshoe pickpockets Gray and removes his *Bag of Holding*, unnoticed.
- The conversation comes back around to Brooke trying to ply Finn for information. 
- Gray tries tells the part about The Wolves and the great danger they present.
- The rest of the party keeps interrupting him; they are not taking this seriously.
- Gray implores the party to listen. The Wolves are building to something big soon. They have people in pretty much every city on this continent. They are looking for *The Shard of Mystra*, whatever that is.
- Val jumps in and says that Gray just has a martyr complex; it is not all about him. She explains that the necromancer riding the dragon was just "her" revenant coming to attack her, not him.
- Gray starts laughing, coming to terms with what really occurred the previous day.

#### Fighting over Direction

- Val decides to ignore everything Gray has said about The Wolves. She says they should just "go see dinosaurs".
- Gray argues that the party should find Gimble instead. He goes to pull out the bag of holding and finds it missing. After feigning looking around for a few moments, Oneshoe "finds it" for him.
- Gray goes to write a message on a *Paper Bird* and send it to Gimble.
- He explains that the Wolves have thing against Diviners; they have been killing them.
- Gray and Val fight over something. Finn grabs it and runs away.
- Gray and Val butt heads about the party direction.
- Gray asks if anyone wants to write anything else to Gimble. Gray writes, "We need to meet. It's life or death."
- Gray and Val fight some more.
- Gray invokes the paper bird. The folded paper doesn't take off, but it doesn't turn to ash either. It just sits there. Gray is surprised. His understanding is that it should have done *something*.
- Gray decides to write another letter on a paper bird, this time addressed to [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/). Gray invokes the message, and the bird takes off, flying out the window.
- The party is ill at ease and unable to come to a consensus.
- Horns suddenly introduces the party to his newly acquired *Barry the Hatchet*. Val wonders aloud if all of the sentient weapons can talk to each other.
- Gray asks Val to ask [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) why the paper bird behaved the way it did.
- Vall calls him immediately and interrupts a lecture. Yet, Master Elian continues the call. About the paper bird, he puts forward some possibilities, including a "mental typo" or perhaps some kind of shielding on the target.
- Grasping at straws, Gray asks Finn if she could somehow make "bullshit" appear in Gimble's book, counting on the strangeness of her wild magic to somehow reach the missing gnome. Finn draws some notes to Gimble.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)

### Returning

- [Brooke](/dnd/npcs/brooke/)
- [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)
- The Revenant

## Quotation[]()s

- [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/): "See, there are basically three classes of structural materials: mud and sticks, which is shite; reinforced timber, which is very good, until things go wrong, and things always go wrong; and then, there's dwarven stone, which is the only material I fully endorse. Proper stone costs a wee coin. Proper stone cost coin because it saves coin."
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/): "I'm sorry I keep almost getting us all killed."

## Inventory

- Gray acquires a *Decanter of Endless Water* near the demise of the rusalka.
- Horns acquires a sentient axe, *Barry the Hatchet*, found near the bottom of the stairs in the manor.
- Gundren reacquires his Mum's axe.

## Trivia

## References
