---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-09-27
description: In which Oneshoe commits an unprovoked attack on a small campfire gathering.
dnd/ref/characters: 
dnd/ref/locations: 
summary: >
  Finn revisits her fascination with wells, a hag has a few dryads over for dinner, and the party is pulled along the echoes of Gray's earlier vision.
title: Serving the Narrative
url: /dnd/posts/2023-09-27/serving-the-narrative

---

## Scaena et Tempore

Within _The Lore of Lurue_

_DR ??? (???, ???)_

## Synopsis

### A Quiet Clearing

- The party finds itself in a clearing. There is a well and two buildings in view. One is a run-down wooden shack that has a bit of smoke rising from it.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) approaches the well to investigate and casts *Dancing Lights* within. Suddenly, a creature is barreling upwards towards Finn from below.
- Roll initiative!
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) startles and readies himself to cast a *Firebolt* at any hostile creature.
- Finn picks up a nearby stick, uses *Prestidigitation* to light it aflame, and drops it down the well at the approaching creature, which seems mostly unfazed.
- A moment later, a grick bursts forth and wraps tentacles around Elk-[Horns](/dnd/characters/horns).
- Gimble reflexively throws a *Firebolt* at the creature, but his left hand spasms again and the bolt goes completely wild.
- Horns rams the creature, but it holds fast.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) closes and strikes the create with his whip, restraining it.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) throws her *Boomerang of Awesome* and wallops the monster, dumping a magical color bomb at the same time.
- Fed up with missing all the time, Gimble attempts to hold his left arm steady as he lines up another *Firebolt*. At first his arm spasms and briefly turns towards Horns, but he pulls it back and lets the bolt go, which succeeds in striking the creature this time.
- Finn is laying on the ground and has a wild surge of magic. A bolt of pure, weird, black light bursts out of her chest and flies into the sky. From the ground, Finn attacks strikes at the monster, killing the creature.
- Finn looks down the well. It is dark now. She yells down the well, and she hers her voice echo back. Confused, Finn attempts to continue the conversation.
- After a moment, Finn starts to climb down the well, and [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) moves to follow, with the giant form of Bullwinkle in tow, somehow.
- Finn is immersed in darkness, as Bullwinkle has plugged up the top of the well.
- At the bottom of the well, Finn finds a small nest. She begins to make a hat out of the detritus.
- Gray chides Finn for wasting time.

### The Hag's Hut

- Meanwhile, Gimble sends Luna on a sweep of the area. The small bird alights on the roof of the hut and takes a look through a small hole. The hut is in disrepair. Within, there are two bound dryads and a cackling night hag looming before them.
- Seeing the danger, Gimble hurriedly relates what he has seen to the party and advises haste to save the dryads from the hag. Oneshoe chides Gimble for making assumptions and demands to know why he is so sure that the Night Hag is evil. Gimble just sighs in frustration.
- Oneshoe and Gray make a direct approach towards the front door.
- Meanwhile, Gimble nears the far corner of the hut at a distance and casts *Detect Thoughts*. He reads panicked thoughts from the dryads, thinking that they will die and wondering if "this is what happened to Hannah." He shifts to the hag's thoughts and finds she focusins on the words of a song and a recipe. Gimble attempts to probe deeper, but the night hag's will is too strong; she throws off Gimble's mental probe and is alerted.
- Zed has Bullwinkle climb up the building and prepares to go through the ceiling. Forcibly.
- Near the hut entrance, Oneshoe readies a special poison. Just as she goes to knock on the door, the hag opens it, saying she had sensed them. They banter for a moment.
- Suddenly Oneshoe swipes the hag and applies the poison, which paralyzes the creature.
- Gray strikes the hag with his whip and pulls her stiff form off the ground. Realizing the creature is paralyzed, Gray releases his whip and starts to go inside.
- Zed begins a ferocious charge towards the hag, lance outstretched. Oneshoe senses this and rolls out of the way just in time, ending her movement within the building with a "cool savior pose."
- The charging half-orc smites the frozen form of the hag with unbelievable force. His lance thrusts straight through night hag as if she wasn't even there. As he gallops past, a small sphere of light develops at the core of the hag, which suddenly explodes violently outward, leaving very little remaining of the creature.
- Gray walks in the hut and unbinds the dryads. He apologizes to them for the delay in their release, claiming that the party wizard didn't want to just rush in and assume the hag was evil.
- Now free, the dryads tell their story. They were out in search of their companion, [Hannah](/dnd/npcs/hannah), who had gone missing. Somewhere along the way, they were taken by the night hag.
- Oneshoe searches the hut and finds a greater potion of healing.

### Investigating the Shack

- Gimble sends Luna off to investigate the other building, but she doesn't find much of interest. Cautious, Gimble uses *Mage Hand* to try the door from a distance, which opens easily.
- Suddenly, there is a cacophony of wild sounds from within. Various animals are screeching and cawing.
- Gray and Zed enter to investigate. They find a different animal types stuck in each cage.
- Zed casts *Speak with Animals* and finds that the animals have gone insane from the their extended captivity and likely mistreatment. They are not able to share coherent thoughts.
- Zed begins to release them. The animals seem grateful, but bolt at their first chance.
- Oneshoe makes a point to retrieve any feathers in view for future potion-making.
- Within the final cage, there is an unconscious dryad, and Zed heals her. The other dryads confirm that this is their friend Hannah.
- Hannah is weary, but grateful. At this point the other two dryads introduce themselves as [Trekaila](/dnd/npcs/trekaila) and [Argentia](/dnd/npcs/argentia).
- They ask how the party got here. Gray talks with the dryads and tells of [Faynor](/dnd/npcs/faynor)'s directions to the party. He asks about The Pool of Eternal Spring. The dryads express familiarity with the pool.
- Zed asks if they know any "nature magic stuff,", and they demonstrate some basic *Druidcraft*.
- While all this has been going on, Gimble has been hanging back, seemingly disconnected from events. He is focused in contemplation into the nature of this space: what rules can be bent, and what rules can be broken. Gimble quickly surmises that this is some type of a demiplane, and it may be possible to skip parts of the "story" by not running through everything in realtime. He considers this.

### Compressing the Narrative

- Leaving the once-Hag's lair behind, the party proceeds along the Path and soon reaches the northern edge of the forest. Off to the east, there is a wide river. To the west, there is a well-worn trail.
- On the ground, there is the remains of campfire. Gray asks which direction they should go, and Gimble simply says, "We will go the way we are supposed to go."
- Gimble then tries to exert his will upon the narrative to speed up the journey to the next plot point. The party experiences a strange loss of time. They suddenly feel like they have walking for an hour or so without memory of what occurred. It is now nighttime. 

### A Rustic Camp

- They can see light in the distance. Trees are silhouetted in red as a bolt of lightning crashes in the sky. Gray recalls the vision he had when examining the book in Candlekeep.
- From afar, there appears to be a group of rough-looking folks circling a campfire. Every so often, they yell out a toast, "To the Beast Lord!". Large, canine beasts prowl about.
- Luna does a quick flyby, but doesn't learn much beyond what the party can already perceive.
- Oneshoe stealthily climbs up a tree, and clearly see the figures about the fire from her vantage point. Taking initiative, she quips, "I like my meat well-done!" as she launches her boomerang towards a figure in the middle of the group.
- Her target is annihilated by the attack, which is followed a fireball that billows outward, encompassing the entire group.
- Despite injuries, the figures rise to fight and release their wargs into the night.
- Seeing the action, Zed charges towards the camp, and a hail of readied arrows strikes out towards him, but only a few make it through his armor. He ranges forward, undeterred, striking at one of the figures and smiling wildly.
- Two wargs surround Bullwinkle, but Zed redirects the attacks to himself, which he shrugs off.
- From the rear, Gimble calmly approaches the closest large tree, casts *Minor Illusion* to extend the side of the trunk, and then steps within, hidden from view.
- Finn runs towards the melee and attempts to mount one of the wargs.
- Gray moves in and quickly dispatches one of the warg keepers.
- The battle continues.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

### New

- [Argentia](/dnd/npcs/argentia)
- [Hannah](/dnd/npcs/hannah)
- [Trachaylia](/dnd/npcs/trachaylia)

### Mentioned

- [Faynor](/dnd/npcs/faynor)

## Quotations

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe): "How do you know the hag is the bad guy?"

  [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner): "..."

## Inventory

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) acquires:
    - A greater potion of Healing.
    - Feathers from some of the caged creatures in the old shack.

## Trivia

