---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-06-21
description: In which the party flirts with Candlekeep staff.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Benedora Stoneforge
  - Cassandra Belacourt
  - Harriet
  - Jay the Clerk
  - Kalan Strongbranch
  - Nyx
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
summary: >
  The party gains entry into Candlekeep and its outer Court of Air, but they are barred investigating the inner library themselves, despite Gimble's insistence. Instead, they fill out numerous research requests and seek lodging to rest and prepare for what comes next.
title: Arrival in Candlekeep
url: /dnd/posts/2023/06/21/arrival-in-candlekeep

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-05 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Entering Candlekeep

- It is late afternoon, and we find the party near a large tree the druids are inspecting closely, hoping to use it for future travel.
- Curiously, it is *still* snowing, even this far south on the Sword Coast.
- As the party turns their attention to the nearby fortress, [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)holds them back, saying that he might have a way to make things easier if they get split up. The small gnome asks the group to gather close. He sits crossed-legged and pulls out a few small fragments of different hues as he begins to intone the beginnings of ritual magic. For several minutes, nothing seems to be happening, but then the party members feel a faint buzzing sensation just above the base of their skulls, accompanied by a slight feeling of vertigo. After a moment it subsides. Gimble finally opens his eyes and looks at the party. Suddenly, everyone hears Gimble say, "Can you hear me, Finn?" though he never opened his mouth to speak. The party now can communicate telepathically for the next hour. 
- Approaching the entrance to the fortress, the party is hailed by one of the guards, who is called [Kalan Strongbranch](/dnd/npcs/kalan-strongbranch). 
- As Kalan greets the party, Gimble warns the guard that they may have some hostile pursuers at their backs. Kalan seems very confident that they will be able to repel any assault and describes some of their defenses, including magical protection against entry anywhere else except through the gate.
- Kalan then asks if they understand the entry fee into Candlekeep, which requires entrants to provide a work of writing that the libraries do not already contain.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) proffers a drawing she had made. Kalan states that, unfortunately, they don't qualify as a work of writing. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) offeres the rare texts they acquired from [Other Leilon](/dnd/locations/leilon) and [Fierna's Tower](/dnd/locations/fiernas-tower). Kalan decides that this proves sufficient entry fee. Before the party proceeds through the outer gate into the Court of Air, Gimble lets Kalan know that they may be 

### Barred Entry through the Emerald Door

- The Court of Air provides petitioners an impressive array of facilities while spending time in the public areas of Candlekeep. However, it doesn't take long for the party to focus their attention on the one place they are not allowed entry, The Emerald Door.
- Here they meet the current guardian, [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge), a gold dwarf and Keeper of the Emerald Door.
- Benedora explains that, while they are not allowed entry, they are more than welcome to make requests for readers to research topics of interest on their behalf. 
- She also explains the rules of Candlekeep.
  - No fighting.
  - No stealing.
  - No copying.
  - No damaging the property of Candlekeep.
- Gimble is very open about his main focus of inquiry, which is the shard of Mystra. [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) seems to recoil a bit at his lack of subtlety. Gimble further states that they are in dire need to expedite the research, which he feels he could do more readily by entering the library.  Benedora politely, but firmly states that this would not be possible without going through a formal approval process by one of the master readers. After some back and forth, Gimble finally backs down and asks to begin the application special entry. He also mentions that he is supposed to meet [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt) at Candlekeep. Benedora promises to send a message to inform to Cassandra to meet Gimble at his lodging here at Candlekeep.
- The party makes some initial research requests, and Oneshoe flirts heavily with Benedora.
- Benedora assigns the party a guide, a young tielfling by the name of [Harriet](/dnd/npcs/harriet). Unusually, Harriet's tiefling features seem quite subtle, and she could almost pass for human. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) takes interest.
- As the party walks, away from the Emerald Door, Horns tries to flirt with Harriet.
- Gimble notices birds flying unfettered through through and beyond the open Court of Air. He has an insight that the magical wards against entry that Kalan mentioned may not be as ironclad as they were claimed to be.

### Finding Lodging for the Stay

- Harriet guides the party to find lodging at the House of Rest.
- The party speaks with [Jay the Clerk](/dnd/npcs/jay-the-clerk) and secures suite 420.
- After getting some privacy, the party unpacks their current plans for next steps as Gimble paces around the rooms, setting magical protections as he goes.


## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)

### Returning

### New

- [Kalan Strongbranch](/dnd/npcs/kalan-strongbranch)
- [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge)
- [Harriet](/dnd/npcs/harriet)
- [Jay the Clerk](/dnd/npcs/jay-the-clerk)

### Mentioned

- [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia
