---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-08-30
description: In which Gray knows which hand to high five.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Benedora Stoneforge
  - Chad
  - Gruumsh
  - Harold
  - Harriet
  - Kei Tigersteel
  - Lloyd
  - Mystra
  - Nyx
  - Oghma
  - Peanut
  - Queen Titania
  - The Wolves
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
  - Chult
  - Nesmé
  - Rivermoot
summary: >
  The party continues processing the results of their research requests, an unsteady Gimble has some troubling revelations at the Temple of Oghma, and Oneshoe enthusiastically takes one for the team. Just as the party considers leaving to find Nyx, they are granted access to The Emerald Door and the interior of Candlekeep.
title: The Walk Without Shame
url: /dnd/posts/2023/08/30/the-walk-without-shame

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-05 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Retroactive Actions

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) previously put in research requests about [Chult](/dnd/locations/chult). She wants to know about Chult, the dinosaurs, and how to ride one.
- She gets some flip books as part of the research payload on Chult.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) looks over the resulting pictures of dinosaur teeth. Finn starts drawing pictures of dinosaurs. One of the pictures appears in [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)'s book.
- Oneshoe also wants to research the stone dagger used on [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania).
    - She learns that is The Stone Knife. It is one of the few things known that is able to reliably lay low an archfey. It is often used in concert with The Stone Table. [^1]
- Oneshoe researches how to reverse a coma in an archfey, but she doesn't get much detail in return.
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) puts in some research requests, some of which he attempts to keep secret.
- Gimble and Zed discuss [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh) and the orc's relationship with the deity. It's complicated. Zed states that it may be a problem that needs to be dealt with.

### Oneshoe Gets to Know Benedora

- Oneshoe gets a find bottle of mead and a charcuterie plate and heads over to see Benedora Stoneforge.
- Benedora looks weary from [Val](/dnd/characters/val)'s constant requests and asks if this is yet another ploy to get through the door.
- Oneshoe lies and says, "no."
- Benedora doesn't really believe her, but she opts to share food with Oneshoe because she's hungry.
- Oneshoe asks to get in the door for, like 15 minutes. She states that she is fully capable and has even recently survived the Nine Hells. Benedora is a bit impressed, yet she will not let the party through the doors. However, Benedora confides that there is a good chance the party's request to gain access to the library has a good chance to succeed.
- Benedora then propositions Oneshoe to pass the time until the morning after her shift, and Oneshoe accepts the offer.

### Zed's Research Results

- Not very much came back from Zed's "secret research requests."

### Seeking Knowledge from the Temple of Oghma

- Gimble goes solo to the temple and meets [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel), who calmly welcomes him to the house of [Oghma](/dnd/npcs/oghma) and asks if he is the Gimble that had a reservation for one of the private rooms.
- Gimble relates his earlier failure to contact Oghma which resulted in a harrying conversation with Gruumsh instead. He asks Kei for advice into how to successfully reach out to Oghma this time. Kei tells him that he will probably have better luck in this space, she suggests enjoying a cup of tea before beginning his ritual.
- Gimble thanks Kei for the kindness. Out of habit, he reaches out to accept the cup of tea with his left hand, which shakes so badly that it threatens to dump the contents. Embarrassed, Gimble quickly transitions the cup to his other hand. Kei notices this and asks Gimble if he is alright. She says he seems unsteady, ungrounded. Gimble briefly admits that he recently traveled with his companions to The Hells, and that place left a mark on him that he isn't quite free from yet. Kei informs Gimble that she may be able to help him when he is ready. With that, she leaves Gimble to his preparations.

### Contact Other Plane

- After finishing his tea, Gimble sets his mind to the ritual before him. He takes a seat on the floor, orients himself towards the closed door of the chamber, and begins intoning words of magic. He closes his eyes and lets the world fall away.
- After a time, Gimble has the perception that he is not alone. Before he even opens his eyes, there is the feeling of a great light upon him. But nothing more.
- Gimble's anxiety overwhelms his better judgement, and he let's slip his first question.

1. Hello, are you there?
    - Yes
2. What is the connection between The Shard of [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra) and [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)?
    - Equality
3. What is the current state of the goddess Mystra?
    - Broken
4. What purpose does the group known as [The Wolves](/dnd/npcs/the-wolves) have for The Shard of Mystra?
    - Domination
5. How can Titania be healed?
    - Undoing

### Checking in with Nyx

- After the communion with Oghma, Gimble issues a *Sending* to Nyx. He asks if she is OK, where she is, and what she knows about Mystra. 
- Nyx states that she is fine and just a few hours outside of [Nesmé](/dnd/locations/nesme). She notably does not answer anything else.

### A Parting Conversation with Kei

- Gimble stops by to see Kei as he leaves the temple. They chat briefly, and Gimble learns a bit about how Kei came into Oghma's service. Gimble expresses some interest in learning more about Oghma. Kei says that he is welcome anytime.

### Gimble Updates the Party

- Gimble returns to the party's quarters in the House of Rest and updates the party on what he has learned. 
- Oneshoe is notably absent.

### The Walk Without Shame

_DR 1492-09-06 (Elient, The Fading)_

- The next morning, most of the party is asleep when Oneshoe returns. Gimble is magically notified of her arrival and comes out to meet her.
- Oneshoe walks into the suite, throws up a hand, and yells, "up top!" Gimble has a questioning look and slowly raises his hand. Oneshoe makes fun of him and tells him to go back to his "nerd stuff". Gimble returns to his chambers.
- Hearing the commotion, some of the others come out of their rooms.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) pointedly motions for Oneshoe to use her other hand to give him a high five. He *knows*.
- Zed begins to guide the room into some morning yoga.

### Zed Asks Gimble about Crafting Magic Items

- After limbering up, Zed takes Gimble aside to ask if the gnome is able to help him to craft magic items.
- Gimble asks what he has in mind, and the paladin explains some complex ideas with multiple, powerful enchantments.
- Gimble advises caution. He explains that while he has done small experiments with simple magic items, the difficulty, and risk, of crafting magic items increases exponentially. Channeling the high magic like Zed speaks of and binding it to a suitable receptacle requires a very specialized skill. And even then, acquiring the necessary components may be a quest in its own right.

### Pondering Next Steps

- The party discusses their position. They originally came to Candlekeep for two reasons: (1) to research The Shard of Mystra and (2) to do so openly enough to hopefully bait the agents of The Wolves into a trap. Unfortunately, neither direction was fruitful here. Instead, Gimble's revelations from Gruumsh and Oghma indicate that perhaps they need to leave and find Nyx. 
- Yet, the other party members have also started their own lines of research into other important matters, such as the events in The Feywild. Should they stay awhile and see what pans out?

### Poor Harold

- Oneshoes keen eyes and Gimble's magical sensors alert them that something is outside one of the windows to one of the rooms. Oneshoe investigates and finds a paper bird fluttering agains the closed window. She retrieves it.
- There is a message from Harold. Oneshoe regrets putting him in a difficult situation. She returns a message to Harold absolving him of his duties. Then, after a pause, she sends a message to Chad.

### Harriet Delivers a Letter to the Party

- Suddenly, the entry door to the suite announces that they have a visitor outside.
- Gray opens the door to find Harriet, the Tiefling with a letter for the party. He takes the letter and promptly closes the door.
- Oneshoe grabs the letter from Gray.
- It seems the party's request to access to Emerald Door has been granted for one week!
- Oneshoe smiles and claims credit. Took one for the team, guys!
- Gray asks Gimble if they should investigate the Emerald Door or leave to find Nyx. Gimble is conflicted. After a moment, he says they are already here, so they might as well take a moment to see what they can find out.
- The party exits their suite and crosses the Court of Air.

### Behind the Emerald Door

- Benedora is at the door, though she is not on shift. She gets Oneshoes attention and says that she has heard who the guide for the party will be. She tells Oneshoe, "You'll need this," and hands her a small pouch. Inside is a bunch of unshelled, unsalted, roasted peanuts.
- Benedora turns to the other guard and says, "Alright, Lloyd, let them in!"
- Oneshoe is the first across the threshold, and suddenly a great looming beast charges towards her. It appears to be a giant owlbear.
- The creature is wearing a sign around it's neck that reads, "Hi, my name is Peanut."
- Before she is overrun, Oneshoe deftly tosses a peanut to the side, and the beast snaps it out of the air with startling speed.
- Apparently, this calms the creature somewhat. It then stands up on two legs and addresses the party in a stentorian voice. "Peanut" will be the party's guide within the inner bounds of Candlekeep.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge)
- [Chad](/dnd/npcs/chad)
- [Harriet](/dnd/npcs/harriet)
- [Harold](/dnd/npcs/harold)
- [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

### New

- [Lloyd](/dnd/npcs/lloyd)
- [Oghma](/dnd/npcs/oghma)
- [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut)

### Mentioned

- [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)
- [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra)
- [The Wolves](/dnd/npcs/the-wolves)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

[^1]: The party experienced a vision of the The Stone Table earlier in The Feywild.

