---

date: 2023-02-01
description: In which the unseatable falls
dnd/ref/characters:
dnd/ref/locations:
summary: >
  Zed throws a Bullwinkle-sized wrench into Gray's perilous reunion with a dangerous associate. Gray makes a tough choice, and the unseatable falls.
title: "A Morally Gray Choice"
url: /dnd/posts/2023/02/01/a-morally-gray-choice

---

## Summary

[Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) had just successfully navigated a perilous situation by convincing [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain/) to stand down and catch up over drinks, but before they can depart, [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) rides full charge towards the hulking warrior. Gray is forced to choose a side, and the remainder of the party can do nothing to blunt the orcish fury as Zed crashes against Mountain. Finally, the unseatable falls, and Gray and Mountain leave the body of Zed behind. Unseen, Rinn trails after the pair and observes an ominous conversation between them in a Neverwinter tavern. A healed Zed looks for a newfound crush, Oneshoe hits the streets to gather intel, and Val seeks answers at the mage college into an Abyssal threat.

## Synopsis

### Recap

The party spends some time in some of Neverwinter's most popular locations, such as the burned and flooded marina district, the ever-popular Jefferson's place (I forgot the name again), the Mage's College, and a long-abandoned farmstead a couple miles north of the city.

### Events

#### Zed Attacks

- As [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) charges towards [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain/), [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) tries to use her *Wand of Binding* to freeze Bullwinkle or Zed in his tracks, but the bulky paladin shrugs it off with a laugh and continues barreling towards his opponent.
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) casts *Haste* on himself and streaks 160 ft across the field to close distance while remaining hidden in the fence line.
- Similarly, [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) dashes forward to find her own new place of cover.
- Seeing the charging form of Zed astride Bullwinkle, Mountain turns to Gray and says, "Just like the old days, right, Gray?" She draws her big, wicked-looking axe and orients towards Zed, her disposition indicating that she expects Gray to join her against this unknown attacker. Approaching the paladin, Mountain suddenly grows in size and height and bulk, now eye-to-eye with the approaching Zed atop his giant mount. She attacks viciously, and Zed smiles as he takes a heavy hit.
- Seeing his moment, Zed says, "Hello, I'm Zed," as he rushes at the Mountain with his lance.
- The Mountain uses unnatural speed to strike back at Zed before anyone else can react.

#### Gray Makes his Choice

- Without much hesitation, [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) turns on Zed and strikes with his *Chains of the Black Inferno*, restraining the paladin. He then says to Mountain, "Full disclosure, this may be my fault, but you did call me a coward."
- Mountain again strikes the bound Zed ferociously. Zed smiles, "Impressive."
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) attempts to use his *Wand of Fear* on Mountain, commanding her to stop, but the hulking orc is mid-rage and doesn't even notice the failed spell.
- With astounding celerity, Mountain slashes at Zed one more time.
- Seeing the fray, Val decides to disengage and hang back.
- Rinn holds off and watches Gray for a sign, ready to strike if need be.
- Oneshoe also moves closer and waits for her moment.
- Suddenly, Mountain strikes her talons across her own arm and casts a blood curse of *Bloated Agony* on Zed. She then grasps the axe an lays into the paladin. The two warriors continue trading banter in the melee; their blood is up and they are enjoying it.
- Zed uses *Misty Step* to teleport himself *and Bullwinkle* 30 ft away and out of Gray's chains. Then he charges right back in and attacks Mountain anew.
- His opponent responds by striking ferociously, causing Zed to briefly fall unconscious, but the orc will not fall. Zed pulls on a well of strength to snap back up in the saddle, his eyes more bloodshot than before. He then strikes back at Mountain with a furious grin.

#### Zed Falls

- Seeing the severity of the situation, Gray interposes himself between Mountain and Zed and flicks the whip across the paladin, causing Zed to go fully unconscious and finally fall from his saddle. Gray then says to Mountain, "I hate to intrude on your flirting, but I do have need of this one." Gray drags the limp form of Zed towards Horns to be healed.
- As Zed is unconscious, he hears a voice in his mind that is deep and familiar.
    - It says, "Well fought."
    - Zed gives thanks. The voice says that he feels they have grown apart.
    - Zed says, that's true and he may have met someone.
    - The voice says it had felt hurt that Zed had run away, but he sees that Zed is great warrior. He asks Zed to come back to his family.
    - Zed expresses hesitance as the voice entreats him. Zed asks if he can think about it.
    - The voice says Zed would be welcome in any encampment, just say the word and bear his mark.
- Gray narrowly convinces Mountain to stave off a killing blow as he is transferred towards Horns and Val. Gray refers to them as "the help".
- Mountain seems suspicious at first, but then she starts to walk off towards Neverwinter, asking again to get drinks with Gray. The massive orc is a bit bloody, but still seems strong. Gray and Mountain leave the group and travel south.
- Meanwhile, the quickening magic of *Haste* expended, Rinn collapses into a pool of lethargy, and then stealths after Gray and Mountain. Gray's enhanced senses just pick up that Rinn is in the vicinity as he and Mountain walk towards the city.
- Horns casts *Heal* on Zed, who wakes at last. Suspecting something more sinister was compelling Zed's behavior, Val casts *Greater Restoration* on him, but that spell doesn't seem to have an effect.
- As Zed bolts upright, he says, "Wait...did they know each other?"

#### Gray and Mountain Have a Conversation

- A few hours later, Gray and the Mountain (with Rinn tailing) arrive at a tavern in Neverwinter. Gray notices that Mountain has been rapidly healing.
- Mountain "acquires" a table by evicting the previous tenants. 
- The pair get to talking. Mountain asks what he has been up to and why he has been hanging out with that bunch. Gray speaks somewhat dismissively of the party, saying that they may be dumb, but they sure do get into some shit.
- Mountain says that Gray has been hidden from the Den Mother's sight for some time. Grays says he been across the planes with his group which might explain things.
- Mountain relates that the Den Mother says that most of the key pieces are in place and Gray should come back. Maybe things will happen with a few months.
- She asks if he will be cleaning up his loose ends soon.
- Mountains says, "some among the Wolves think Gray is unreliable."
- The *Shard of Mystra* is still outside of their grasp, she says. 
- Gray asks if the alphas are finally getting off their asses. She says, "yeah!" Gray seems surprised by this.
- Gray mentioned that the Summer Court is fucked. The Mountain seemed surprised to hear that from him and wanted to know if he was involved.
- Mountain asks what happened in Neverwinter a few days prior.
- Gray implies it had something to do with Val. Mountain says that since that attack the security in the city is too tight now. The Den Mother says they may need to "use a different city."
- Gray mentions Brooke and burning messages.
- Gray agains says he has loose ends to take care and will take his leave. Mountain says she will return to the island.
- They part ways.

#### The Rest of the Party Returns from the Farmhouse

- Zed recovers some strength while riding on the back of Bullwinkle on the way back to the city. He is waxing on about his newfound crush.

#### Oneshoe Investigates Mountain

- Upon return to Neverwinter, Oneshoe hits the streets to investigate and rumors about Mountain. She is frustrated to not learn much except that the Mountain frequented a certain tavern. She also learns that Gray is known to frequent the same tavern. Finally, she gets a tip from [Harold](/dnd/npcs/harold) that Mountain may have stayed at an inn called *Sardines*.
- Oneshoe follows up on this and bluffs her way up to the rooms and picks the lock to the Mountain's previous room. Oneshoe investigates, but it doesn't appear that Mountain really left any belongings or anything. Oneshoe determines that Mountain had many weapons that she had kept near the bed. Maybe the disturbed dust indicating a travel bag. She finds some remains of food, including bread crusts. There wasn't much else. The gnome surmises that Mountain likely did not have many connections tying her to the city. Oneshoe learns that Mountain did not get to Neverwinter by sea, but she is leaving on a ship called *The Whale's Bounty*, a merchant vessel that may sometimes be used for piracy. It is heading north.

#### Zed Searches for Love

- Zed searches the city to see if he can have a second meeting with Mountain, but he turns up empty.
- After running into Oneshoe, he learns that Mountain has already left the city on a ship heading north. Zed seems quite disappointed.
- Oneshoe tries to console him by introducing the orc to the patrons of Jefferson's bar, The Tease and Please.

#### Val Seeks Answers at the Mage College

- Val decides to hide out at the Mage College since most of the city might hate her due to her actions while under the influence of Graz'zt.
- Val approaches [Master Elian](/dnd/npcs/elian-amaadon/) to ask for help connecting the mysterious letter with her family and the Jade Arbor.
- Master Elian thinks the letter sounds like the ravings of a madman. There could be more there, but it is unclear.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)

### Returning

- [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain/)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Harold](/dnd/npcs/harold/)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

## References
