---

date: 2023-04-26
description: In which Val acquires another jawbone.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Gundren Rockseeker
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Phandalin
  - Tresendar Manor
summary: >
  Things look dire for most of the party. Then a certain half-orc shows up with some friends, and Horns removes the dragon from play. The tide turns.
title: Vengeance Denied
url: /dnd/posts/2023/04/26/vengeance-denied

---

_`DR 1492-09-04 (Elient, The Fading)`_

## Summary

The revenant has been torn from his dragon mount, yet fury drives him on. Underground, [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) stays out of reach of The Revenant's vengeance; however, this only redirects the wrath towards the rest of the party. The dragon's assaults are merciless. If not for [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/), [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) would be dead, and [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) and [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) aren't faring much better. A ghost stalks Oneshoe. Gray tries more desperate aerial maneuvers to stay out the dragon's blast zone, only to lose his gryphon and be targeted by a new powerful foe arriving on the field (and accidentally by Oneshoe). The dragon banks around for another attack, and the situation looks grim. Then, [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) arrives on the scene. He straight neutronizes the ghost and calls forth his berserker horde to protect Gray and clear most of the battlefield. Not to be outdone, Horns takes a bold step and *Polymorphs* the flying dragon into a small toad and luckily manages to catch and restrain the falling form. The tide has turned. Seeing her moment, Val strikes down the revenant and brings an end to the conflict.

## Synopsis

### Recap

Chaos. A violent storm assaults the battlefield as the southwest wall of the manor burns. [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) continues to harry the zombies from below as an earth elemental, remaining mostly out of reach of her frustrated pursuer. [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) takes the fight to the revenant with some daring aerial maneuvers. Meanwhile, [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) tries desperately to deal with the growing fire in the manor and is surprised when some latent protective magic gifted to her by [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner/) activates and starts absorbing the flames. Outside, the party is starting to take some heavy damage. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) provides some much-needed group healing to buy some time. But then, the dragon issues a terrible gout of toxic miasma. Gray and [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) are badly hurt, and [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/) falls. Horns swoops in to save Gundren and then directs his owls to rip the revenant from the sky.

### Events

- Still in earth elemental form, [Val](/dnd/characters/val/) glides beneath the ground to close distance with The Revenant.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) continues rolling around to put out the remainder of the fire at the manor.
- Within the sleet storm and unseen by everyone, the revenant stands up and waits for its moment to strike against Val if she shows herself.
- The dragon begins to launch skyward to get enough range for another direct assault at the group.
- Not knowing if he can survive another bout of the dragon's breath, Gray decides to quickly scramble onto the back of the beast and be carried aloft.
- The dragon then spews its necrotic miasma towards the gryphon and owls.
- We find that [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) was sleeping during the first part of the battle. He apparently slept in his armor.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/) feels uneasy in her position, so she climbs up onto the roof. Finding and opening, she throws some *Eldritch Blasts* at the dragon and then ducks back to hide in the shadows.
- Not liking his new position much, Gray jumps off the back of the dragon in an attempt to land on the back of the gryphon, but the dragon takes a nasty bite out of Gray's hide along the way. The gryphon catches Gray and they fly down to just above the sleet storm. Gray then leaps into the storm. He lands unsteadily on the icy ground but somehow keeps his feet.
- Gray tunes into his preternatural senses and finds that the revenant is nearby. He strikes at the creature and restrains it.
- Gundren strides out from cover and hurls a curse at the dragon along with a crossbow bolt, which goes wide.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) pulls Gundren back and force-feeds him some more goodberries, telling the badly injured dwarf to stay out of sight.
- Zed finally wakes up with Bullwinkle snores beside him. The half-orc hears a commotion from the south, so he climbs astride his mount and flies to investigate.
- Val reaches up from beneath the ground to strike at the revenant and knocks some pieces off his physical form. She retreats under the earth.
- Finn manages to put out all the fire in the manor.
- With Val yet again out of reach, the revenant turns its ire upon Gray and casts *Blight* upon him again.
- The dragon flies down and lays into the owls, taking one out in a cloud of feathers. The owls retaliate as the dragon flies by, but they cannot pierce its hide. The dragon then bites into the gryphon, causing it to revert to a statuette, which is swallowed by the monster.
- As the dragon banks away, a few more zombies fall out of a hole in the side of its dilapidated form.
- The ghost was stalking Oneshoe, but it lost track of the slippery gnome. Looking for another target, the ghost tries to possess Zed instead, only to be violently thrown out as Zed channels the power of yoga. The ghost starts to sink through the roof in disgust, but not before Zed unleashes the mother of all smites upon the specter. He neutronizes it.
- Suddenly, the revenant looks back at something unseen behind him and says, "This one," motioning towards Gray.
- Coming out of invisibility is an Alhoon, which sends a powerful psychic blast at Gray.
- Oneshoe sees this and throws her Boomerang of Awesomeness at the Alhoon. It strikes the creature but also triggers a stinking cloud, which can only affect Gray, unfortunately.
- Running on fumes, Gray throws a quick attack as he tries to leap away and escape.
- The revenant swipes at Gray but misses.
- Gundren saw Gray being attacked and then disappear within the stinking cloud. He starts to turn to help, but zombies bar his path. Gundren fires a bolt at an incoming zombie, but his distraction fouls the aim.
- Horns goes for a bold move. He flies *beneath* the dragon and then attempts to *Polymorph* the monster into a toad. The spell succeeds! A toad falls from the sky.
- Horns desperately reaches out to catch it, and he does it! He quickly thrusts the polymorphed dragon into a bag.
- Arriving on scene, Zed sees that Gray is in bad shape. He pulls a horn from his bag and sounds a deep note. Suddenly, fourteen minotaur berserkers appear, who run out and quickly dispatch the remaining zombies. Some rush over to protect Gray, and playfully toss him about in the air.
- The tide has turned.
- Seeing her moment, Val rises out from the ground to strike the revenant multiple times. The revenant rebukes her with a necrotic blast, but Val, in her earthen form, shrugs it off and proceeds to smash him repeatedly into the earth. The revenant is now unmoving and in pieces.
- Val picks up the jawbone and attaches it to her clothing to join her other trophies.
- There is an oppressive silence. Then there is a pressure. The wind picks up and rushes towards the revenant's remains. The purple book once carried by the fiend rises into the air and flips open. Suddenly, the compacted form of the revenant is sucked into the book, which then vanishes.
- Another breezes begin to blow. This one is cool and refreshing. The party has a breath to consider what has occurred.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val/)

### Returning

- [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/)
- The Revenant

### New

### Mentioned

## Quotations

- [Gundren](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker/): I see you still have the same wee problem.
  Val: What's that?
  Gundren: "You should have been born a dwarf!!

## Inventory

- Val acquires the jawbone of the revenant.

## Trivia

## References