---

author:
  - Tanner
date: 2023-08-02
description: In which Val invokes fantasy denial-of-service.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Benedora Stoneforge
  - Cassandra Belacourt
  - Feldmar Bisset III
  - Gruumsh
  - Kei Tigersteel
  - Khe'ril Hammerbind
  - Nyx
  - Tasha
  - The Raven Queen
  - The Wolves
  - Wallace
  - Zariel
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
  - Nesmé
summary: >
  Gimble's _contact other plane_ goes a little off the rails, and he has a conversation with Gruumsh. The group try to come up with a new plan for dealing with Nyx's pursuers, since their charade in Baldur's Gate failed to pull them off of Nyx's trail. Val tours the Court of Air looking for any possible way to get past the Emerald Door. Cassandra visits, and the first round of requested knowledge is delievered.
title: Research Obstructing Research
url: /dnd/posts/2023/08/02/research-obstructing-research

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-05 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Contact Other Plane

Inside room 420, the Menagerie begin to settle into their suite as [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) shuts himself in his room and casts _contact other plane_ in search of answers.
He's met with a plane of darkness and can sense a presence, so he pushes his will through to it.
A crimson eye bleeds out from the blackness and Gimble recognizes it as a symbol of [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh).
The orc deity expresses amusement at the gnome's presence and invites him to ask his questions.
As Gimble does, he feels as if Gruumsh is wringing something out.

1. Where in Candlekeep can Gimble find a book explaining the shard of Mystra?
    - No such book exists.

2. Where is the nearest pursuer?
    - Not far from [Nesmé](/dnd/locations/nesme).

3. Will the pursuers ever pursue Gimble instead of [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)?
    - It's possible.

4. What is the shard of Mystra?
    - It's all that Gruumsh has allowed to remain.

5. Where is the shard of Mystra?
    - Not far from Nesmé.

Gruumsh's laughter fills the void, slowly fading away as the spell concludes and Gimble's mind is shunted back to his body.

### En-Suite Discussion

Gimble is shaken as he comes back to himself in his room, and is startled by sudden movement behind him.
He whirls, a _firebolt_ nearly jumping from his nervous fingertips, when he sees that the disturbance was caused by Not-Bailey blinking into his bed (she's playing a game of hide-and-seek with [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn), and both are convinced that they're the one supposed to be hiding).

Upon hearing the commotion inside, [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) — who's been guarding the door — enters Gimble's room.
Gimble relates his experience in fragmented speech, his mind racing for understanding. Gimble casts a hasty *Sending* to Nyx, warning her of the pursuers closing in on Nesmé. She replies that she is just leaving and heading towards Rivermoot.
The conversation spills into the suite's central room and most of the group try to help the gnome in his planning and theorizing. 

- It seems like the mysterious hunter is still single-mindedly focused on Nyx, and the group concludes that if they're to have a chance at confronting them, she's going to have to play a part in it.

- Gray suggests perhaps tricking Nyx in some way, since she's been so adamant to run instead of fight — Gimble is much conflicted about the idea, but can't dismiss it.

- They also wonder if perhaps the Shard of Mystra and Nyx are somehow connected — or stranger, if perhaps they are somehow the same entity.

- They consider attempting to cast _contact other plane_ again — perhaps somewhere further away from [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) — in an attempt to talk to somebody other than Gruumsh.

### Val's Machinations

[Val](/dnd/characters/val) spends most of her time trying to launch a DoS attack on Candlekeep by submitting a deluge of requests for books in the hope that she can annoy her way through the Emerald Door.
[Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge) handles Val's onslaught of requests with very mild amusement; this probably isn't the first time somebody's tried a tactic like this.

She also visits the other establishments in the Court of Open Air, trying to find somebody who can get her past the Door.

- At the Hearth, she speaks with an Avowed reading a romance novel called  _Chains of Passion._
  She learns that he does indeed go behind the Emerald Door for his duties, and he tells her that the best way for her to gain access is to submit a request and wait for the response.
  He also says that he can't (or won't) get her in, and she leaves him to his smut.

- At the House of the Binder, she meets a scribe who also travels through the Emerald Door as part of their work. He introduces himself as [Wallace](/dnd/nps/wallace-the-binder), and Val promptly calls him W-Rock.
  They also recommend the same course of action, and also can't get her through the door on their own, but they do tell Val about the bookbinding services they offer.

- At the Erudite Outfitters and Clothiers, she meets a human named [Feldmar](/dnd/npcs/feldmar-bisset-iii) and learns that he and his family opened up this shop here in Candlekeep, and aren't among the Avowed themselves.
  As such, he's never been behind the Emerald Door.
  He's very proud of the silkworms that he raises in an attached atrium, and asks if he can help with any garment selections.
  Val buys whichever robe most closely matches the colors that the Readers wear, and Feldmar tailors it for her before she leaves.

- She pokes her head into the granary, sees that it's a granary, and leaves after barely speaking to the granary attendant.

- As Val approaches the Bath and Steam House, she gets [some unpleasant memories of the last time she was at the baths]({{< ref "/dnd/posts/2022-08-17#naked-mad-eye-moody" >}}) and decides to pass it by.

- At the Temple of Oghma, she meets the temple's caretaker: a human priest named [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel). Val names her K-Rock.
  Val asks her if she ever goes behind the Emerald Door, and she says yes.
  She's technically not an Avowed, but she's dedicated many years to the temple and to the pursuit and cultivation of knowledge, and has managed to acquire a special sort of status.
  Val asks if she could do the same, and Kei says that while it's possible, it would probably be faster to just join the ranks of the Avowed where she could probably expect to get behind the Emerald Door in just a couple of years.
  Val also inquires about renting some space in the temple, and after a few moments of consideration Kei says that she could clear out one of the monks' rooms for a couple hours in exchange for a kind and generous donation to the temple.

- At the Smithy and Stables, she meets a gold dwarf named [Khe'ril Hammerbind](/dnd/npcs/kheril-hammerbind).
  He rarely goes behind the Emerald Door, and only when he's specifically requested to deliver a metalwork of some sort.
  Val gives him a bottle of [Gundren's](/dnd/npcs/gundren-rockseeker) brew, and he's very appreciative.
  He claims it's bad manners to partake in a gift of alcohol alone and insists that she join.
  Val initially dubs him K-Rock, but she then remembers that moniker was just taken, so she amends it to KS-Rock (The "S" is for "Smith".) Val explains the [-Rock naming system]({{< ref "/dnd/characters/val#vals-rock-band" >}}) to him.

She returns eventually to room 420 and tells Gimble that she was able to rent him some space for another casting of _contact other plane._

### Cassandra Visits

As Val is leaving from yet another DoS submission, the Emerald Door opens just enough for [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt) to step out.
She greets Val and the two of them discuss getting past the Door; like the rest of Val's conversations, Cassandra recommends submitting a request to the Great Readers, but she also says that she can try to expedite the process.

Cassandra returns to the Hearth with Val to greet the rest of the group, where she confesses that, to the best of her knowledge, nobody in the Reclamation has heard of an artifact called the Shard of Mystra.
Some conversation occurs, and she says that she would be grateful for any or all of them to work with the Reclamation in tracking down missing artifacts, but that such work should probably wait until the Menagerie has dealt with some of their more pressing matters.
She then leaves to go start that expediting process.

### Knowledge Dump

Finally a couple hours after their first request for materials, an Avowed delivers a collection of materials compiled for their first literature request.

- Finn's research
  - learns about notable people and creatures of [The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild), including some information on Iggwilv, aka Tasha.
- Gray's research
  - receives lots of info and fairy tales about [The Raven Queen](/dnd/npcs/the-raven-queen), but there is almost nothing about who she was before ascension.
  - some information on the Shadar-Kai
  - loads of info on lost and recovered books, which is difficult to sort through
  - receives a copy of a pamphlet for the _Cause and Effect_ business.
- Horns' research
  - *Beneath the Glacier Vale* is no longer in the library. Actually, it was permanently withdrawn, with the record signed with a big red A.
  - receives a fair amount of info on [Zariel](/dnd/npcs/zariel)
- Gimble
  - the researchers could not find _anything_ on the shard of Mystra.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Benedora Stoneforge](/dnd/npcs/benedora-stoneforge)
- [Cassandra Belacourt](/dnd/npcs/cassandra-belacourt)
- [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

### New

- [Feldmar Bisset III](/dnd/npcs/feldmar-bisset-iii)
- [Kei Tigersteel](/dnd/npcs/kei-tigersteel)
- [Khe'ril Hammerbind](/dnd/npcs/kheril-hammerbind)
- [Wallace](/dnd/npcs/wallace-the-binder)

### Mentioned

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [The Raven Queen](/dnd/npcs/the-raven-queen)
- [Tasha](/dnd/npcs/tasha)
- [The Wolves](/dnd/npcs/the-wolves)
- [Zariel](/dnd/npcs/zariel)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- Val acquires a blue robe from Erudite Outfitters & Clothiers. It is suspiciously similar to the attire of the Readers of Candlekeep.

## Trivia

- This session holds the current record for the number of new people added to [Val's Rock Band]({{< ref "/dnd/characters/val#vals-rock-band" >}}) in a single session (3).

