---

author:
  - Tanner
date: 2023-02-15
description: In which the Menagerie learn that they have become art collectors.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Levistus
  - Lily Ashewood
  - Mirna Dendrar
  - Psithyron
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Neverwinter
  - Phandalin
  - The Silver Lion Inn
  - Tresendar Manor
summary: >
  OneShoe launches a personal investigation.
  Gray traumatizes a friend.
  Horns takes the party on the tree express train to Phandalin.
  Ravio delivers some news, and the Menagerie discover a lot of art in their home.
title: Homecoming
url: /dnd/posts/2023/02/15/homecoming

---

_`DR 1492-09-03 (Elient, The Fading)`_

## Neverwinter

- Unseasonable snow continues to fall; it's not cold enough to stick and build up on the ground, but it's not showing any signs of letting up.
- As Mountain departs and the group wraps up whatever business they were attending to, they slowly reconvene at a table, once more in the Silver Lion Inn.
  - Finn gets distracted chasing after a raccoon, but is unsuccessful in catching it.
- OneShoe needles at Gray, attempting to pry information from him about the mission at the farmhouse and his involvement and history.
  - Gray eventually leaves the table and goes to his room; OneShoe follows and bounces on his bed, continuing to harry him.
  - Gray leaves for Horns' room where he promptly slips away from the inn through the window.
  - OneShoe searches Gray's room; she finds a [crumpled-up note](/dnd/notes/grays-paper-crane-letter).
- Horns takes a trip to the washroom to try and communicate with the visage of [Levistus](/dnd/npcs/levistus) that he keeps seeing in reflective surfaces out of the corner of his eye. However, he is unable to draw Levistus into focus and his verbal entreaties draw no attention save for a questioning eyebrow from a random patron when Horns leaves the washroom.
- As the group winds down for the evening, Horns wonders why his window is open.
- Gray makes his way to [Lily Ashewood's](/dnd/npcs/lily-ashewood) manor.
  - The grounds are busy as the working day is coming to an end; Gray unloads a recently-loaded box and carries it as if he belongs on the estate doing some job.
  - Once inside the manor he discards the crate, makes his way through the interior until he spies Lily in the foyer, signing off on some final document. She turns to see him and is mildly surprised.
  - After some opening small talk ("you look busy," "well, somebody's got to be now that father's dead and mother still isn't recovering," and so on), Gray mentions that he hasn't eaten in a long while. Lily invites him up to her sitting room for "fruit salad" - it's just wine.
    - She does have some bread and cheese and actual fruit brought in, however.
  - Conversation is difficult and halting; Lily suggests that not every night is destined for conversation, and the scene closes.

_`DR 1492-09-04 (Elient, The Fading)`_

- Early the next morning, the scene dramatically reopens.
  - Gray is screaming and blood is pouring from his tattoos as his armor collects its _remuneration._ Lily screams as well, and tries to find some fabric to staunch the wounds that aren't actually there.
  - In the strained moments after, Gray tries to warn Lily that she should maybe find somewhere else to be, that associating with him isn't safe.
  - At the same time, Lily also explains that maybe Gray isn't the best person to have around, and they both arrive at the conclusion that Gray should leave.
  - He does - this time, through the front door.
- At the Silver Lion Inn, the party meets up for breakfast.
  - OneShoe has a raccoon marionette purchased for and delivered to Finn.
  - OneShoe also does some handwriting analysis of the note she found in Gray's bedroom.
    - Delicate yet strong, right-handed; likely a woman's, perhaps elven. Faint traces of ash in the ink and on the page.
    - She summons Harold and orders him to find out whatever he can about prominent elvish women in the vicinity of volcanoes. Harold is doubtful about such a broad task with so few details, but OneShoe convinces him just the same.
  - Gray returns as well, and OneShoe resumes her interrogation of Gray, now armed with the crumpled note.
  - Gray eventually gives a very very brief and vague statement that he's broken ties with "the lady" he assumes OneShoe is talking about. He explains that the reason he's been traveling with the Menagerie so much is that he avoids dealing with his issues, and recalls how Horns first came upon him in the forest so many months ago.
- The group decides that they should go check in on their home in Phandalin, and Horns reveals a sweet new spell he has to help them do just that.
  - He casts _transport via plants_ and the group tastes wood and earth and bark as they are funneled in mere moments to a large tree on the grounds of Tresendar Manor.

## Tresendar Manor, Phandalin

- It's snowing here as well, like it was in Neverwinter.
- In the entrance of the manor, they see [Ravio](/dnd/npcs/ravio/) sprawling upon the clockwork dragon that Gimble and OneShoe made.
  - Finn casts _speak with animals_ to talk with him, and after sharing a few bored statements about his house, he requests a fish. Finn returns with one, and after a brief inspection, Ravio seems pleased. He tells Finn, "you know, the balance back at your home is shifting more and more in Winter's favor," before yawning, stretching, picking up the fish, and leaving.
  - Finn is confused and concerned about his mention of "_**her**_ home."
- As the group moves further into the manor, it becomes immediately apparent that the... _"risqué"_ painting of Gimble they brought back from the Feywild has been copied... many, _many_ times.
  - Every room has two.
  - The group asks [Mirna](/dnd/npcs/mirna-dendrar/) if she knows anything about the paintings. She says that she's definitely noticed them turning up, but she could never figure out who was putting them there, so she figured that one of the group had arranged for their creation and installation in the party's absence.
  - OneShoe does some investigation and learns that the reproductions are _good_ but certainly noticeably not the original. Also, there are traces of sulfur and brimstone on the works.
  - Everybody turns to Horns, remembering his imp companion, and not expecting anything to come of it he calls for Psithyron. However, he finds that there's a heated fullness to his voice, and the group hears him utter a short litany of infernal, and then with a small puff of brimstone, [Psithyron](/dnd/npcs/psithyron/) appears, seemingly summoned back from the Nine Hells.
  - He's questioned about the artwork, and he reveals that he is indeed the artist responsible. He's very proud of his work, and is crestfallen when OneShoe begins gathering them all up and taking them down to the basement.
    - She tells him that he should do something different, and to encourage him, she says that she'll buy his next piece. The imp leaves to begin working on whatever that's going to be.
- As this is the first time that they've been back to the manor since Gimble left them in Avernus, Finn and OneShoe go to investigate Gimble's room to see if he left any note about where he might have gone.
  - They find the linens and sheets neatly folded and the desk tidy, but no trace of Gimble's possessions remain. Finn and Not-Bailey lay down at the foot of his empty bed.

-----

The Menagerie now need to figure out what their next course of action is going to be. There are several threads they could pull on:
- What's up with Gray's past, Mountain, and that letter?
- Where's Gimble gotten to? Should they try to track him down?
- What's the shard of Mystra that Mountain was talking about?
- Should something be done about Winter's waxing power in the Feywild?
- Do they want to track down Cause & Effect within Sigil, The City of Doors, at the end and beginning of all planes?
- What if they just finally bought a boat and went to Chult?
- Does Zed want to go find a new home in an Orcish tribe?
- What about the raving madness in Val's note, urging the reader to seek out the Jade Arbor?

