---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-09-13
description: In which the party really gets into a particular book.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Peanut
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
summary: >
  Now with direct access to the libraries of Candlekeep, the party continues their research before Gimble finds a suspicious, enchanted book, and they find strange things within.
title: An Immersive Tale
url: /dnd/posts/2023-09-13/an-immersive-tale

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-06 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Feathered Friends

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) grabs the bag of peanuts from [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) and starts to feed them to [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut), who happily wolfs them down. There is some casual conversation. The party brings up the unseasonable snowfall, but Peanut says he should be fine as he has a deep coat of feathers. Finn is impressed and wishes she could have feathers too.
- Peanut asks what the party wants to research.
- Finn jumps in to say that she wants to learn about a potion to grow feathers! Sure enough, the owlbear soon guides them to an area containing a treatise with a recipe for just such a potion. [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) helps Finn take some notes and believe he could produce the potion with only a few common ingredients. They will need some feathers to get started.
- Finn states that [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) has volunteered to take the potion first. Gray strongly denies this.
- Suddenly Peanut realizes he has forgotten something. After asking that that the party behaves in his absence, Peanut leaves the room.
- Without their guide, the party begins to investigate the area. Gimble deduces that part of the ceiling is lower that it should be based upon the surrounding architecture. Looking closer, he notices an out-of-place stone, but he decides not to disturb it for now.
- Peanut returns with a satchel for each of the party members. It contains a notebook and a pencil.
- Finn asks to trade more peanuts to the owlbear in exchange for some of his feathers. Peanut happily agrees.

### A Suspicious Book

- Gimble then asks to research Mystra, her history, and how she was destroyed and reformed before.
- Peanut leads the party to another tower, a darkened area. He offers a driftglobe to each of the party members.
- The owlbear leads the party down and down a staircase, which opens up into something more like a vault than a tower. Peanut dashes off, periodically returning to drop off some books that matched their research request.
- Gimble starts a ritual to invoke *Detect Magic*.
- Just before his ritual completes, he gets a magical ping from something at his periphery. A singular book gives off a slight aura.
- After the completes the ritual, he approaches the book. Gimble detects an aura of conjuration on the book. It is a deep purple volume, bound with sinew. No title is immediately visible.
- Cautious of the enchantment, Gimble uses *Mage Hand* to retrieve the book and examine it more closely. There is a latch over the cover. On the front there is a gold circle with a unicorn. Looking more closely, the circle is a crescent with eight stars. Gimble thinks this may be the crest of Silvery Moon.
- Gimble then opens the book, finding the title, "The Lore of Lorue". The first page contains some story which ends with, "When you are ready, turn the page to proceed." Gimble is suspicious and decides not to turn the page.
- Instead Gimble closes the book for now and returns to view the other books which Peanut had retrieved for the group.
- Gray asks for assistance in processing his list of missing and damaged books.
- They find that a large number of books missing with the past few years about divination.
- Gimble then shows the party the purple book he found and explains how it jumped out to his attention.
- Gray uses his *Grim Psychometry* to try to discern information about the book.
- He has a vision of an old forest, wild and untamed. He sees an old, weathered hut, a stone-worked well. Then it is nighttime. Tents. A campfire. Figures. The smell of blood. Gray's hackles are up. Scene shifts. Sunlight. A chorus of howls. A crack of red lightning. A black horse-like figure.
- The party decides to learn more about the book, but Gimble cautions them that he suspects a strong enchantment is upon it. He decides to use *Mage Hand* to open the book from a distance, but first asks the party to stay far back.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) did not stand back far enough.
- After turning to the second page, magic swelled, a large portal formed, and the tiefling was immediately pulled within.
- The part just looks at each other for a moment, but then realizes they needed to go after him.
- Finn writes a note to Peanut, attempting to explain what happened. Gimble casts a *Sending* to the owlbear guide, but there is no response. Curious.
- Resigned, the party approaches the portal and are swept away.

### Through the Portal

- The party finds themselves standing in the middle of a forest. Tall trees. Mountain peaks in the distance. It appears to be dusk. A full moon begins to rise.
- It smells like a forest, but also of old paper.
- Gimble conjures Luna and has her attempt to do some aerial recon. Strangely, the owl is unable to fly very far. Some unseen barrier prevents her from gaining much altitude. Further, her progress is only unhindered when proceeding in one direction.
- The view that Luna is able to gather does look a bit familiar to Gimble--like an old civilization. Maybe something similar to current SilveryMoon.
- It seems the party only has a single path available to them.
- Before proceeding further Gimble casts *Telepathic Bond* on the party.

### A Merry Greeting

- The party explores the forest path.
- There are sounds of laughing from up ahead. Three satyrs emerge from the forest, swaying back and forth.
- They are speaking Sylvan and proffer wine to the part. Gray is the only one able to converse with them.
- Gray takes a swig of the wine.
- The satyrs introduce themselves as [Tragos](/dnd/npcs/tragos), [Artelio](/dnd/npcs/artelio), and [Fanagy](/dnd/npcs/fanagy). They relate that they were out for a revel before being accosted by a bunch of ravens. They ask for help to get home.
- Gray translates for the party. Gimble asks if they have seen anyone else. The satyrs mention hunters in the area that are killing too much.
- Fanagy then bumps into Horns, and tries to headbutt horns in greeting followed by a high five.
- The party agrees to help, and Gray guides the party through the woods.
- Some ways ahead, there is a bunch of golden sap on the path that sticks against one of the satyrs.
- Finn decides to taste the sap. It is sweet. She feels a bit of pep in her step. She likes it and tastes some more.
- Gimble gathers about four vials of the sap and distributes to the party.
- They continue on the path for a few hours.

### Polvarth Plateau

- Finally, the party ascends a slope and find themselves in a vaguely circular clearing upon a plateau. There is a singular, large tree, resembling a maple. The satyrs exclaim happily that they have returned to "Polvarth Plateau".
- The satyrs reverie is interrupted by a loud, guttural noise. Looking about, the party is surprised to see that the massive tree is making the noise. It then speaks to the party in Sylvan.
- The satyrs introduce the tree as [Faynor](/dnd/npcs/faynor) before scampering off.
- Again, Gray is the spokesman for the party. He asks the tree about the hunters and the ravens.
- The tree says that their spring is being sullied. Faynor asks the party to continue on their journey and clean up the "Pool of Eternal Spring". Faynor recommends following the path further to called Dewlight, a small fey community where they should seek out a sprite named [Wheel Daly](/dnd/npcs/wheel-daly). To aid in their quest, Faynor raises up a small vial from beneath the earth and presents it to the group. He explains that it contains the essence of a hill giant.

### Dewlight

- The party continues down the path for some time before reaching a small glenn. The area is full of mushrooms, some of which appear to be small homes.
- An elderly sprite is in the area, glaring up at the party. It is Wheel Daly. Gray tells the sprite that Faynor sent them here and asks for more information.
- The sprite talks of the predators stalking the forest. Wheel Daly thinks that the predators are disciples of [Malar](/dnd/npcs/malar), which she explains is the beast lord. She thinks that the bad things have been ramping up towards the winter solstice, which is in a few days.
- Gray asks if any of their community has been harmed. The sprite just laughs and says they can take care of themselves. Suddenly, a half dozen other sprites come out of invisibility and surprise the party.

### The Party Is Attacked

- After another 30 minutes or so down the path, travel become more difficult. The wood is denser, and there are large spiderwebs about.
- Gray smells creatures nearby, something acrid. He pauses, and asks the party become more wary. As they carefully proceed further, four creatures jump out towards the party. Bipedal forms with long, thin arms ending in claws. Their bodies are purplish black with an iridescent sheen. Mandibles snap towards the group.
- Finn strikes at one of them as it jumps out towards her, but one the beasts spits a web out at Finn and restrains her. Several of them strike out at Finn, but she is able to avoid the worst of it. Another tries to web Gray unsuccessfully.
- Horns transforms into a giant elk and charges one of the beasts.
- Gray cuts Finn free of the webs with his whip and then strikes the creature that Horns had attacked.
- Gimble casts *Web* on two of the creatures, yelling, "let's see how you like it!" but they seem to be able to move through without any issue. He adds, "Well, I guess you kinda like it. Shit." 
- Finn cleaves one of them in two.
- The remaining beasts attack Finn and Gray. Finn is bitten, but luckily she resists the poison from the wound.
- Elk-Horns charges into one of the beasts and splatters it.
- Gray whips the heck out of one the beasts.
- Gimble casts a *Firebolt* at the creature Gray was fighting. He misses entirely, but hits the webs, causing it to go up flames. This kills the injured creature and also unfortunately burns Gray.
- Finn inadvertently runs into some of the webs and is restrained again.
- The remaining creature thinks better of continuing the fight and runs away deeper into the forest.
- The party stamps out the fire before it spreads.

### Further Onwards

- As they press further, the webs recede, but the trees grow denser. After a while, the path bends to the west.
- There is a small clearing with a run-down shack. Past that is large hole in the ground. There is also a larger structure in the area.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)

### Returning

- [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut)

### New

- [Artelio](/dnd/npcs/artelio)
- [Fanagy](/dnd/npcs/fanagy)
- [Faynor](/dnd/npcs/faynor)
- [Tragos](/dnd/npcs/tragos)
- [Wheel Daly](/dnd/npcs/wheel-daly)

### Mentioned

- [Malar](/dnd/npcs/malar)
- [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) acquires a large bundle of owlbear feathers from [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut).
- The party acquires:
    - four vials of golden sap
    - a vial of hill giant essence

## Trivia

