---

author:
  - Tanner
date: 2023-03-01
description: In which the Menagerie attempt to make a decision.
dnd/ref/characters:
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Phandalin
  - Tresendar Manor
summary: >
  The Menagerie take stock of the paths before them and spend a lot of time trying to choose one.
  Gray has an extensive (drunken) duel with a training dummy, and some familiar unfamiliar guests come calling in the night.
title: A Family Meeting
url: /dnd/posts/2023/03/01/a-family-meeting

---

_`DR 1492-09-04 (Elient, The Fading)`_

## Tresendar Manor, Phandalin

There is much discussion of the assorted leads that the party could choose to follow, taking all afternoon and evening until they decide to go to bed.
A few highlights:
- OneShoe attempts to request some _divine intervention_ from Mooncolor, but the attempt is unsuccessful.
  - She breaks out some good herbage for the ritual, and as a result is riding high for the rest of the evening.
- Finn reveals Ravio's message about Winter gaining strength in the Feywild (but she omits the part where Ravio mentioned "her" home).
- Chult comes up as an important and worthwhile option a surprising number of times
  - OneShoe sends a paper crane message to the Neverwinter HQ (she accidentally encloses a Fantasy Dorito, and luckily Chad receives the letter and writes the response, thanking her for the rad snack) to gather an estimate of the time and cost of a ship to Chult:
    - Chult's Port Nyanzaru is somewhere around 3200 miles straight-line distance from Neverwinter
    - A sailing ship can cover about 120 miles per day in ideal conditions; 3200/12 ~> 27 days, if it could travel in a straight line
    - Passage on a sailing ship is typically around 1sp per mile; ~> 320 gold per person, if it could travel in a straight line
  - Val estimates the feasibility of traveling to Chult via Giant Eagle wild shape:
    - Giant Eagle has a fly speed of 80 ft per round, can take the dash action to move `(160 ft per 6 seconds) x 10 = 1600 ft/min`
    - `1600 ft/min x 60 min/hr = 96,000 ft/hr`
    - `(96,000 ft/hr) x (1 mi / 5280 ft) = 18.1818... mi/hr`
    - `2 x 6 = 12` hours of wild shape per day
    - `18.1818... mi/hr x 12 hr/day = 218.1818... mi/day`
    - `3200 mi / 218.1818... mi/day = 14.7 days`
    - This assumes a single druid flying the straight-line distance from Neverwinter to Port Nyanzaru, and that there is a place in the ocean to take a long rest every 218 miles, which is very unlikely.
    - This also would be unable to transport the entire party; a giant eagle could transport at most one human-sized humanoid, or two halfling-sized humanoids.
      - However, if one of the druids makes it to Chult, they could use _transport via plants_ to return to the party, and the same spell could bring everyone to Chult.
  - Additional consideration was given to traveling overland down to the southwestern tip of the Calim Desert and then trying to fly across the straight that leads to the Shining Sea: 
    - Depending on the map, this distance seems like anywhere from 220 to 350 miles; the ability to make this flight in the limit of 218 daily miles is uncertain.
    - This would also mean that the party has to rest in the wilds of Chult.
- Val uses _animal messenger_ to call a bird to service, and attaches a copy of her abyssal note to its leg.
  - She tells the bird to deliver the following message to her mother in the Jade Arbor: _"Grab the note on this bird's leg, the Jade Arbor is in danger. Something from the abyss is coming. Elfspringa not going well. Love, Val."_
- Finn has her heart set on finding Gimble, and OneShoe somehow convinces her that traveling to Sigil, the City of Doors, will lead to finding Gimble; "I can guarantee you that, technically, he'll be behind one of the doors."
- Gray is absent from these discussions, spending the evening in the training room in the basement of the manor getting drunk and fighting training dummies.
  - He strains himself to exhaustion, slipping into hybrid form and going all-in on attacking and not bothering to defend or dodge from the dummy's counteroffensive. Eventually he destroys a training dummy and passes out in the sand.

Late in the night, Gray is woken up by a pecking on his face.
The source of the pecking is a white-headed raven, and as Gray pushes himself unsteadily to his feet, the raven hops away and looks expectantly at Gray.
Gray follows, and the raven leads him to the ravine in the basement cavern.
On the ground is the corpse of another raven, this one all black; Gray picks it up, and the white-headed raven croaks "trust not" at Gray before flying away.

Gray detects the scent of stagnant water and decay, and he follows it to its source: the cistern on the eastern side of the basement.
He inspects the waters and notes some strange, barely-perceptible current beneath the surface.
Then, a dark shadow appears on the surface, and it grows wider as a head of long, dark hair rises out of the cistern.
A woman's face appears from behind the hair, and she wraps her arms around Gray's neck and pulls him under the water.

Upstairs on the second floor, Horns is awakened by an explosion of green flame crashing through his bedroom window.
He reflexively casts _darkness_ on the flames, hoping to extinguish them (he succeeds in dousing the light, but not the flames).
Rushing to the window, he sees several dozen undead approaching the manor.
One of them is holding a stick attached to a skull burning in green flames.

Finn is woken up by a presence attempting to invade her mind, but she's able to push it out.
A ghost drifts through her body into her bedroom, growling _"where is she!?"_

OneShoe's window is smashed in as well, and a being made of a variety of stitched-together parts barrels into her room.

Val is woken up by the explosion in Horns' room and she rushes to her window.
She notes the dozens of undead, and a huge shadow on the ground as well.
She looks up and traces the shadow to a dragon, silhouetted against the moon.
Parts of the dragon's body seem to be missing, and bones can be seen in places where flesh is absent.
Atop the dragon is a gaunt humanoid haloed in a dark purple aura.
As he closes in he calls to Val, telling her that it's been nearly a year since last they met.

The _revenant_ is back.

