---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2023-10-11
description: In which Finn attempts to tame a corrupted unicorn.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Lurue
  - Peanut
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Candlekeep
summary: >
  The battle with the followers of Malar continues as an ominous, red storm assaults the sky. Finally, the Pool of Eternal Spring is located, only moments too late. The corrupted avatar of Lurue has been summoned.
title: The Thoroughbred of Sin
url: /dnd/posts/2023-10-11/the-thoroughbred-of-sin

---

## Scaena et Tempore

Within _The Lore of Lurue_ ; _[Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep)_

_DR 1492-09-06 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Continuing Battle at the Rustic Camp

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) shifts into her earth elemental form and sweeps under the ground, swiping at the wargs from below.
- A few berserkers close in on [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns).
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) has an inspiration that any of the things they have found within this place will mostly likely not persist if they ever escape; therefore, he informs the party to use up the items at some point soon.
- Gimble lashes out at a berserker next to [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) with a *Mind Whip*.
- Finn continues unsuccessfully trying to tame the warg she is riding.
- Horns shifts into a Giant Ape form.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) strikes at a nearby berserker and takes one out.
- Val strikes again at a nearby warg, but it was waiting for her and bites her first.
- The berserkers strike at Horns, Finn, and Gray.
- The warg under Finn tries to buck her off, but Finn holds firm.
- Gimble throws a *Fire Bolt* at a berserker attacking horns.
- Finn casts three bolts of *Eldritch Blast* at the nearest berserkers. She takes out at least one.
- Ape-Horns pummels the berserkers near him and smashes one into the ground.
- Gray attacks one of the berserker, who somehow stays up.
- Val rises up to strike the warg, which, once again, was ready to snap at her. Val smashes the warg to dead in retaliation.
- The berserkers continue to menace Horns, Finn, and Gray.
- Gimble conjures a web around the two berserkers north of Horns and has Luna harry the one which managed to avoid being restrained.
- Finn throws her handaxe at a berserker and then pulls out [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin) to throw him as well! As the spiked targe flies through air, Finn hears in her head, "I'm free!"
- Horns strikes at the berserkers in the webs and takes out one of them.
- Gray rips the whip free of a berserker and strikes him again, putting him down for good. Gray then approaches the berserker harrying horns and hits him with his flaming whip.
- The berserker struggles and then bleeds out from the whip's blades.
- Val swoops underground and pounds another berserker into a pulp.
- The final berserker sees the state of things and tries to run away. Ape-Horns manages to knock the berserker down, but it gets up and continues fleeing.
- Gimble lines up a *Firebolt* and takes him down.
- Meanwhile, Finn gives up on trying to tame the warg, dismounts, and begins to walk away in disappointment. The warg seizes her in its jaws and tosses her to the side.
- Horns rolls up on the warg and pounds it into the ground.
- The field is now silent.
- Finn has the sensation that Magrin is somehow trying to will himself further away.
- There is a sky full of red storm clouds.
- The party searches the camp, but doesn't find much.
- Earth-Elemental Val has fun trying to trip Ape-Horns as they walk towards the south.

### The Pool of the Eternal Spring

- The party approaches a new clearing. In the distance, they can see a wide, shallow pool which is streaked with impurities.
- Six wolf-like humanoids stand with their backs to the party. They are chanting ominously.
- Suddenly, there is a great bolt of red lighting that strikes the surface of the pool. As the bolt dissipates, there appears an all-black unicorn, with red lightning crackling all over it--just as in Gray's earlier visions.
- Val immediately sweeps under the earth and attacks one of the werewolves from below.
- In response, the werewolves charge towards the party.
- Wreathed in red lightning, the unicorn hurtles towards Finn and strikes her with its outstretched horn, injuring the halfling badly.
- Something triggers within Finn, and she is surrounded by a bright light striking back at the unicorn with her axe.
- Ape-Horns approaches from behind and strikes the unicorn.
- Several werewolves swarm Horns, savaging him with bite and claw.
- Gray jumps in the fray and attacks one of the werewolves.
- Gimble reacts to Finn being skewered by the unicorn and conjures a *Wall of Force* around the unicorn and three of the werewolves, separating them from the rest of the melee. The werewolves strike futilely against their temporary prison. 
- Val reaches up from beneath the earth to attack her werewolf quarry, but it was ready for her and bites her back first.
- The unicorn does not like its position and nimbly *Misty Steps* out from the wall of force.
- One of the werewolves attacks Gray.
- Finn successfully mounts the unicorn because, well, that's kind of her thing now. The unicorn responds by flying fifty feet straight up with Finn clutching onto its back!
- Ape-Horns picks up a large rock and beans the unicorn mid-flight.
- Gray takes out one of the werewolves. 
- Gimble lashes out with *Mind Whip* against the unicorn and the werewolf near Gray, but the unicorn resists the psychic attack.
- Val crushes a werewolf and partially buries it in the earth.
- The unicorn continues its ascent and hovers at around 100 feet in the air. It then channels a gigantic bolt of lightning which strikes both Finn and the unicorn. Finn is very badly hurt, but the unicorn seems unfazed.
- Finn puts both of her hands on her face, casts *Bolstering Magic*, and jumps off the back of the horse. The unicorn strikes out furiously with its hooves as she falls, but Finn's ioun stone reacts by manifesting a magical *Shield*, appearing just in time to deflect the mighty blows from the beast. Still, Finn finds herself careening towards the earth below!
- Gimble takes in this scene and has several rapid thoughts at once: (1) he is so very glad that he prepared the defensive magic for Finn, (2) he is shocked that all of the uses have not already been expended, and (3) Oh shit! Finn is still falling!
- Gimble reacts by quickly casting a *Featherfall* scroll, and the halfling's descent suddenly slows.
- Ape-Horns smashes the only remaining werewolf outside the wall of force.
- Gray uses his hunter's senses to study the scene and concludes that the party needs to destroy the unicorn's corrupted form to cleanse the area.
- Simultaneously, Gimble studies the pool and the unicorn and reaches the same conclusion as Gray. They look at each other in understanding.
- Val comes forth from below the earth, drops her form, and casts *Earthbind* upon the unicorn in attempt to wrench it to the ground, but the unicorn's will proves to strong, and it resists the spell.
- Instead, the unicorn dives straight down, aiming to skewer Finn, but the magical shield is still up and helps Finn deflect the attack.
- Finn strikes back with her *Eldritch Blast* and two beams strike the creature. Suddenly, a dark blue bolt of lightning from the moon strikes the unicorn. The blackness of the unicorn falls away, and we see the true living avatar of the unicorn [Lurue](/dnd/npcs/lurue). She swoops down and gently helps Finn reach the ground.
- The unicorn then drifts over to the pool, dips her horn into the tarnished waters, and banishes the corruption. The purifying affect continues along the stream to the waters beyond.
- The now-restored form of Lurue regards each member of the party in turn. After a moment, the unicorn disappears, followed by the world itself fading to black.

### Return to Candlekeep

- The party comes to consciousness, as if from a fugue state. They hear Gimble read aloud the last pages of the book, which tells the story of Silverymoon. Gimble closes the book. Upon its cover is a small piece of jewelry that was not present before. Closer inspection reveals it to be a *Ring of Shooting Stars*.
- Despite the earlier ordeal and injuries, the party seems perfectly fine. [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut) is nowhere to be found, and it is unclear how much, if any, time has passed during their journey within the book.
- While the party ponders what has happened, Val, and Val alone, hears a voice inside her head. It says, "I've seen you asking questions. If you wanna get in here whenever you want, reply yes." 
- Val, without much hesitation, says aloud, "Yes!" Still somewhat disoriented, the rest of the party doesn't seem to notice Val's outburst.
- The voice continues, "tell your guide that you want to look up information on [Bahamut](/dnd/npcs/bahamut). There is a book called *The Trial of the Silver Dragon*. Leave 1000 gold in it."
- Val quickly asks the voice, "who are you?" There is no response.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

### New

- [Lurue](/dnd/npcs/lurue)

### Mentioned

- [Bahamut](/dnd/npcs/bahamut)
- [Peanut](/dnd/npcs/peanut)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment | Count | Item                     | Source            | Destination     | Notes                                                |
| ---------- | ----- | ------------------------ | ----------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Expended   | 1     | Scroll of *Featherfall*  | Gimble            | -                | Used to slow Finn's fall from the unicorn's back.    |
| Acquired   | 1     | *Ring of Shooting Stars* | The Lore of Lurue | Party Inventory | Found on the book's cover after completing the tale. |

## Trivia

