---

author:
  - Tanner
date: 2024-09-18
description: In which the Menagerie skirmish with Winter.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Kellis MacCleod
  - Kessil MacCleod
  - Lloi
  - Ringtail
  - The Prince of Frost
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
dnd/tags:
summary: >
  The 
title: Somebody Order a Blizzard?
url: /dnd/posts/2024/09/18/somebody-order-a-blizzard

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-10 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

- It's a fight with the Prince of Frost! He kicks things off by causing a blizzard to materialize, making the ground treacherous and attacks harder to land, and constantly slicing through the party with whirling shards of ice.
- Gray learns that striking him with fire damage invites a teleporting attack from the Prince of Frost.
- Gray also learns firsthand that the Prince has the potential to freeze a person's blood solid; luckily he's able to escape such a fate.
- Gimble takes a studious approach, watching the Prince and the Weave closely to glean information.
  - He gains insight into what types of damage the Prince is susceptible to and resistant against.
  - He learns that the magic surrounding the Prince is not what he would have expected; indeed, it seems like this opponent is merely a simulacrum of some kind.
- The Menagerie are ultimately victorious, and as the Prince of Frost is defeated, he states that he recognizes Val's bow; with a wicked smile he hints that clearly he has some unfinished business to take care of.
- As the Prince's simulacrum form crumbles apart into snow which melts almost immediately, an icy-cold fist-sized gem, pale blue and reminiscent of the shape of a human heart, falls from his chest.
- Gimble picks it up and studies this Weave as well. He thinks it could be a likely candidate for the "winter pill" component - or at least, the real one could be, as this one also crumbles and melts away.
- (Lloi also helped fight.)
- The party learn that the sprite bartender's name is Kellis MacCleod, and that Maeve was here just for the moonshine. They learn that moonshine is booze quite literally made from the light of the moon, and that she's out of stock.
- Her sister Kessil was supposed to be back with another batch, but she's a couple weeks delayed. Kellis isn't sure what's happened to her.
- Finn notices a big fat orange tabby cat lounging in a nearby tree, and she uses _speak with animals_ to engage it in conversation.
- She learns that he doesn't really have a set name, and she decides to call him Ringtail.
- She asks if he has any secret information to give her, and he, offended, asks if she just assumes that _every_ cat is part of the Order.
- He is, though, and he tells her that two of the seven black rabbits mentioned in Lady Mayweather's song will already be waiting for them at the onset of the Dreaming, so they only have to worry about five.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

### New

### Mentioned

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia
