---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-01-10
description: In which in which Val and Finn perform a fastball special.
summary: >
  Nyx has been found, and the party tries to convince her to fight back against her pursuers. Alone, Gray observes a familiar figure closing in on its prey. Nyx panics and pleads for escape, and Timber strikes. And he is not alone.
title: Timber Strikes
url: /dnd/posts/2024-01-10/timber-strikes
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Timber
  - Mountain
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Rivermoot

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Rivermoot](/dnd/locations/rivermoot)_

_DR 1492-09-07 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Gray Recognizes the Pursuer

- We pick up from [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) catching a glimpse of the stranger pursuer.
- Gray elects to carefully climb down from his hiding spot and silently follow the figure.
- Upon getting a closer look, Gray is pretty sure he recognizes the character as someone he knows as [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber).

### Within Nyx's Hideout

- Meanwhile, the rest of the party are gathered together inside [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)'s hideout.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) is trying to fly with her newly-created feathers.
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) starts questioning Nyx about how the pursuers keep finding them, but she is evasive as usual. Nyx wants to run. She seems to be getting increasingly nervous and senses the pursuers are close.
- The party presses Nyx on how she could know this.
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) wonders if perhaps their is a revenant after Nyx.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) notices when Nyx shudders as Val talks about her imprisonment and torture. She calls Nyx out on it.
- Nyx deflects and says they should just gone on another trip together like the party did earlier through Yartar. This is odd, as the party never went on a such a trip with Nyx before, yet it suddenly seems like they might remember it anyway.
- A few of the party resist this new memory, including Gimble, Zed, and [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns).

### Gray Stalks Timber

- Back outside, Gray has been following Timber from a distance.
- It looks like the figure is triangulating the probable location of the hideout, with increasing surety.
- Gray uses his *Hunter's Bane* skill to assess Timber, and learns that the figure has some amount of Lycanthropy, but also something much more.
- Gray pulls back to perform a crimson rite out of range.
- Gray starts to stalk his target again, but then notices a *second* Timber figure some distance away! He gets a sense of smell from both directions.
- Suddenly Timber starts to stretch and rend his body, growing in size into what Gray understands as some type of hybrid form.
- Within the hideout, Nyx is starting to panic and implores the party to leave now! She starts scrawling out a teleportation circle.
- Timber claws out at the air before him, and suddenly, the tiny hut vanishes! 
- Everyone inside of the hut is surprised, except Val of course.

### Confrontation

- Gray jumps from his tree towards the other figure. He hears the other figure say, "I found her. Leading troll".
- Gray sees a small effigy of carved runes on a sort of troll figure.
- Val orients towards the threat. The figure approaching them is huge and hulking. Where his eyes should be, instead are jutting out purplish-blue crystal rods.
- Val casts *Call Lightning* against the figure, but the spell comes apart in her hands as Timber counters its energy. She pulls back, transforms into a earth elemental and shifts under the earth.
- Oneshoe is not able to react yet.
- Finn rages out of her surprise and approaches Timber to cast *Eldritch Blast* at him, yet he remains unscathed.
- Timber casts *Prismatic Spray* against the group. Luckily Zed's aura absorbs a large amount of the incoming energy of the mighty casting, reducing the danger somewhat.
- Hoping to mess with the enemies plans, Gray approaches and picks up the cast off effigy and puts it in the bag of holding. He continues to hide and preps and attack against the hidden figure.
- Timber suddenly flies 60 feet up in the air. He then mutters to himself and looks annoyed in Gray's direction.
- Val considers her next move. She emerges from the ground below Finn and throws the halfling up at Timber, and she hits! Val also chucks a rock up at Timber as well.
- Oneshoe hits him with a *Guiding Bolt*.
- Timber sneers at Finn and *Misty Step*s away, higher in the air.
- Finn begins falling, and Gimble casts *Feather Fall* to slow her descent. 
- Landing gently on the ground, Finn runs a bit closer and then throws her axe up at Timber, making a critical hit.
- Timber unleashes a force attack against Nyx which also pulls her closer to him. He then throws something small into the nearby pond. Next he drops a fog cloud over Zed and much of the group.
- Gimble casts a *Tasha's Mind Whip* at Timber, which is resisted.
- Timber fires a *Fire Bolt* at Gimble, but he dodges it, luckily.
- Gray, as mock-Rinn'thalas, pulls out his longbow and attacks. One arrow strikes true.
- Timber casts a force bolt at Gimble, but Gimble cast a shield to deflect.
- Nyx is in a state that Gimble has never seen. She is slipping into a panic attack and she keeps repeating that she is "useless against him".
- Gimble asks how Nyx knows Timber.
- Nyx ignores the question and gives Gimble a scroll of *Plane Shift*. She asks him to prepare to cast it to for the party's escape.
- Nyx moves closer to the group and then prepares to cast *Scatter* to bring folks together for the *Plane Shift*.
- Meanhile, Horns conjures 16 giant owls and shifts into a giant eagle, taking flight.
- Zed moves out of the fog cloud. He calls a *Moonbeam* down on Timber, but the foe resists most of the spells effects.
- The owls swarm agains Timber, but he appears to be unharmed by their talons.
- Suddenly, the water in the pond starts to gurgle and several figures emerge. Seven werewolves and [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain).

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber) (now named)

### New

### Mentioned

[Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

