---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-02-21
description: In which Nyx wakes up.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Amelia
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
summary: >
  Horns magically restores Nyx, but she awakens without memory of the party or the last several years. This Nyx claims to be a young orphan fleeing from Mirea. The group stops for shelter, Gimble receives divination from a troubling source, and an envoy brings a message and gift for Finn.
title: New Nyx, Who Dis?
url: /dnd/posts/2024-02-21/new-nyx-who-dis

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-08 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Nyx Awakens

- En route to the fey crossing, [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) approaches [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) and [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx). He asks Gimble to help him assess her physical condition. They don't find anything wrong.
- Horns then casts _Greater Restoration_ on Nyx, which does seems to have an effect.
- After a brief moment, Nyx starts to become responsive. She suddenly becomes frightened and backs away from the group. She does not seem to remember any of them. In fact, she doesn't seem to remember much at all from the past several years.
- Confused, the party asks questions to determine what she *does remember*.
- Nyx doesn't know what year it is. Says she lost track of time on trip over to [Luskan](/dnd/locations/luskan).
- Says she grew up in [Mirea](/dnd/locations/mirea), in "The Blinds".
- She mentions avoiding going ash-blind.
- She remembers making it to Luskan. She doesn't remember much after that. She might have been attacked.
- She thinks she left for Luskan ~~about 40~~, maybe 3-4 years ago.
- The Nyx that Gimble knew was older than him. However, her behavior now seems to be much younger than before. She doesn't know how to use magic or even read.
- Nyx is scared and cold, and doesn't seem to trust anyone.
- Gimble tries to calm her and casts _Prestidigitation_ to warm Nyx's coat.

### Sheltering in the Tiny Hut

- Gimble creates a _Tiny Hut_ for some shelter while they figure out some things.
- He introduces Nyx to Luna and says the she will watch over her. This seems to calm Nyx somewhat.
- Gimble explains that he will reach out for some answers. He asks the party for input on what questions they what answers to, and he begins a ritual to _Contact other Plane_.

### Contact other Plane

This time, as Gimble sends out his consciousness, he finds himself surrounded by stark, unfeeling, and almost overbearing cold. There is a presence here.

#### Gimble's Questions

Q1. Can we heal Titania without the stone dagger?
A1. Unlikely

Q2. How can we help recover Nyx's memories?
A2. Nothing to recover

Q3. Is Nyx still the Shard of Mystra?
A3. Yes

Q4. What is the connection between Timber and Nyx?
A4. Predator/prey

Q5. How can we protect Gray from the Wild Hunt?
A5. Run

### An Envoy Approaches

- Meanwhile, [Not-Bailey](/dnd/npcs/not-bailey) notices something outside the hut and alerts [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn).
- Outside, a cat with mottled, white and black fur sits on a nearby tree.
- Finn exits the hut and meows at the cat.
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) comes along and tries to approach the cat, but it doesn't pay him much heed.
- Finn decides to talk to the cat. This goes on for a bit before she remembers she can magically speak with animals.
- She invokes the spell and speaks to the cat again, which ignores her for a bit before saying, "Finally, you have decided to speak sensibly." The cat introduces herself as [Amelia](/dnd/npcs/amelia). She mentions [Ravio](/dnd/npcs/ravio). She knows Finn, and she is checking up on her.
- The cat soon gets annoyed with Finn's conversational ability and wants to talk to someone else.
- Amelia says that the state of the Feywild is out of balance.
- Winter has gained power. [The Queen of Air and Darkness](/dnd/npcs/the-queen-of-air-and-darkness) is a fundamental force. Avoid her.
- Amelia recommends reaching out to one of the other two courts. The Autumn court is in disarray, so the best bet is the Spring Court.
- Amelia is authorized to give on thing. She scratches at the snow in front of Finn, making a hole.
- Finn approaches and digs in that place. She finds a cloak with a hood. The hood has a pair of cat-like ears on it.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

### New

- [Amelia](/dnd/npcs/amelia) 

### Mentioned

- [The Queen of Air and Darkness](/dnd/npcs/the-queen-of-air-and-darkness)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)
- [Ravio](/dnd/npcs/ravio)
- [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber)
 
## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment | Count | Item               | Source           | Destination                    | Notes                                                        |
| ---------- | ----- | ------------------ | ---------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Acquired   | 1     | *Nine Lives Cloak* | [Amelia](/dnd/npcs/amelia) | [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) | Identified by [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) |

## Trivia

