---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-07-10
description: In which someone knows what OneShoe did.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Queen Titania
  - Lady Tiandra
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
summary: >
  After the shared experience of Lady Mayweather, the parties visions diverge to mostly unsettling ends. Gimble and Nyx need assistance recovering, and the party seeks guidance from Lady Tiandra.
title: Vision Quest
url: /dnd/posts/2024-07-10/vision-quest

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-10 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Vision Quest

#### Gimble and Nyx

- A frozen hellscape--poverty.
- A stone room. A figure with a blindfold causing pain to [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx). A pale blue glowing gemstone.
- A port town. Nyx being assaulted from behind by a blackjack.
- In a sea of pure white. An overwhelming sense of a massive presence that, somehow, is Nyx.
- But that is not all, there is another presence, a dark presence which matches and overbears the other.
- There is a laughter, which is familiar to [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner). It sounds like [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh).
- Gimble ends the vision in a bad way. Gimble finds himself going through the earlier scenes of pain and torment, this time alone.

#### Oneshoe

- A vision back when [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) was working in the weaver's guild.
- She sees herself when she was younger.
- She steals from the coffers to get money for the PI school.
- She is convinced that someone saw her. Someone knows.
- She wakes completely paranoid.

#### Finn

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)'s vision starts calm, petting [Not-Bailey](/dnd/npcs/not-bailey) and other animals.
- She see a vision of herself in the clouds looking down and laughing at her.
- [Magrin](/dnd/npcs/magrin) still dislikes Finn. Dream Not-Bailey becomes scary and imposing.

#### Val

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) gets enraptured by the crazy complexities of the mushrooms.

#### Gray

- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) has a torrent of shifting emotions.
- Starting with:
    - Swirling. Spinning. Tumbling. Falling. Tempest. Storm. ~~Hail~~. Hael.
- Ending with:
    - Boats. Faces. Friends. Menagerie. Strength. Grey.

#### Horns

- Many versions of [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)' branch off himself.
- This brings him some understanding that may take him some time to fully process.

### Awakening

- The drum circle is gone.
- Sitting in cross-legged pose at the base of the tree is [Lady Tiandra](/dnd/npcs/lady-tiandra).
- The party reacts a bit to their visions.
- Gray approaches Lady Tiandra and ask for her advice.
- She can explain that [Dame Calluna](/dnd/npcs/dame-calluna) is a flower. She is also a real entity, also known as "The Dreaming". Getting to her realm is not straightforward, but Spring is closer to it than other courts.
- She says it seems the rest of the song is a way to encode the material components of something.
- [Hy-Brasil](/dnd/locations/hy-brasil) is a Feywild version of Atlantis.
- The seven black rabbits might live there.
- The daffodils seem straightforward.
- Nyx seems like she is confused; she keeps looking at her hands.
- The party finally realizes that Gimble seems likes he is slightly catatonic.
- Val casts *Greater Restoration* to bring Gimble back to his senses.
- Horns tries to cast *Greater Restoration* on Nyx with the intent of removing a supernatural affliction upon her. He finds that he is completely overwhelmed and is thrust back several feet.

### Yet More Questions

- Gimble asks Lady Tiandra for insight into Nyx's condition.
- The archfey says that there are two entities within her, one vast and old. She says it makes sense that the larger presence may be related to [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra) when Gimble puts forward that theory. She also says that the two entities are intertwined so strongly that separation is unlikely, at least with her knowledge.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)

### Returning

- [Lady Tiandra](/dnd/npcs/lady-tiandra)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Dame Calluna](/dnd/npcs/dame-calluna)
- [Gruumsh](/dnd/npcs/gruumsh)
- [Mystra](/dnd/npcs/mystra)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment | Count | Item | Source | Destination | Notes |
| ---------- | ----- | ---- | ------ | ----------- | ----- |

## Trivia

