---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-01-24
description: In which Bullwinkle makes a heroic last stand.
summary: Timber proves to be a powerful foe, and a panicked Nyx sets up a desperate escape. Zed hangs back long enough to flirt with Mountain, and Bullwinkle heroically buys the party some time.
title: Scattered Away
url: /dnd/posts/2024-01-24/scattered-away
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Timber
  - Mountain
  - Nyx
dnd/ref/locations:
  - Rivermoot
  - The Feywild

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[Rivermoot](/dnd/locations/rivermoot)_

_DR 1492-09-07 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Battle with Timber

- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) holds her action until after [Nyx](dnd/npcs/nyx) does something.
- Nyx casts *Scatter* on the party to bring them close to *Plane Shift* and escape. Everyone willingly is transported by the spell, except [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed), who resists!
- Instead of joining the group, Zed casually looks over to [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain) and says, "Hey."
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) looks around after apparating besides the others. She prepares to defend herself.
- The werewolves close in on Zed and try to throw javelins at him.
- [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber) used his own dark portent to strike at Zed when he was weak. Zed loses some of his magical power.
- The moonbeam shines down upon Timber and damages him some.
- Timber outstretches his hand and casts a beam of sickly green light at Zed, but luckily the paladin resists most of it.
- Timber flies towards the party.
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) yells for [Horns](dnd/characters/horns) and Zed to come together now! He readies his action to cast the *Plane Shift*.
- Timber teleports to close distance to the party.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora), as "Rinn", fires two longbow shots at Timber but misses.
- Nyx prepares to cast *Plane Shift*, though she looks like she is freaking out and on the verge of a breakdown. Val intuits that Nyx will leave with or without the rest of the group.
- Val-Earth-Elemental yells at Horns and Zed to come here now or she will fucking leave them.

### Desperate Escape

- Horns gets the message and flies down to Val.
- Zed casts a new moonbeam down upon Mountain. He tells her that she lights up the night. He then flies over to the group and takes all the gear of Bullwinkle and then prepares to dismiss him. He says, "I'll see you on the other side." Bullwinkle telepathically tells Zed, "Go, take your saddle. I'll buy you some time."
- The party finally together, Gimble casts the *Plane Shift* scroll. Learning that it was pre-keyed to a Feywild destination, Gimble hastily targets the Jeffwilds.
- There is a flash and a familiar disorientation of crossing the planes.

### Return to the Feywild

- The party finds themself in a snowbank. It is very cold. The sky is dim gray and overcast. It is silent.
- Some members of the party notice that the shy mountain is nowhere to be found.
- Nyx collapses in an almost catatonic state. Gimble tries to comfort her, but she is non-responsive. 

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [Mountain](/dnd/npcs/mountain)
- [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber)

### New

### Mentioned

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

