---

author:
  - Tanner
date: 2024-08-23
description: In which Horns considers taking out a second mortgage against his soul.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Brandan
  - Brenden
  - Kessil
  - Lloi
  - Maeve
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
dnd/tags:
summary: >
  The party encounters a powerful winter fey whom Oneshoe antagonizes, Gray gambles with his friends, and Finn fights a huge jackrabbit man for some special booze.
title: An Ice Cold Drink
url: /dnd/posts/2024/08/23/an-ice-cold-drink

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-10 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

- The crew puzzle over how to solve Lady Mayweather's sung riddle, and Lloi suggests a visit to her favorite local bar (MacCleod's) to drink things over.
- Outside the bar, the party notices that the windows have frosted over.
- Horns wild shapes into a fly and slips inside to investigate.
- The bar is empty except for a sprite bartender, a beautiful winter fey, and two buff-looking black rabbit Tuatha; to Horns, the atmosphere seems fine.
- He returns and beckons the rest of the party inside, and they all immediately notice that the atmosphere is _not_ fine; the bartender is quietly terrified.
- Gray doesn't miss a beat and walks in like he belongs there, going behind the bar and playing the role of an employee, persuading the sprite to hide in the back room.
- Horns engages in conversation with the winter fey, who turns out to be Maeve, Lady of the Winter Court. She has a reputation of being an incredibly mercurial party girl.
- She invites Horns to join her for a good time, and while Horns is on the cusp of accepting, Zed steps in and warns him that he's so very close to entering a binding agreement; as if Horns hasn't had enough of selling his soul.

[ WIP ]

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

### New

### Mentioned

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia
