---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-04-03
description: In which we learn of Soliandar's knotty past.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Dwynwen
  - Eiddwyn
  - Ffywellyn
  - Soliyandar
  - The Prince of Frost
  - Tom
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
  - The Briarheart
summary: >
  The party finds themselves stuck within the bounds of a magical forest. After trying unsuccessfully to fight their way out, they are confronted by the young guardian of forest, who desperately needs their help.
title: Of Fire, Water, Branch and Bow
url: /dnd/posts/2024-04-03/of-fire-water-branch-and-bow

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-08 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Retreading Ground

- The party finds themselves returned to there previous locations after the strange events of [The DJ](/dnd/npcs/the-dj).
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) goes over to retrieve his things in the pile by the dead sprite.
- He picks up the remains of the sprite to put in his spell component pouch.
- The party follows [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) through the snow.
- The landscape starts to change...darker and more foreboding. The vegetation is more bare.
- Finn and Gimble notice something. Maybe a coppery feeling of some sort of magic.
- He sends [Luna](dnd/npcs/luna) up to look around. She sees a repeating, vague, tiled pattern of the forest in all directions except in the one they are proceeding in.
- After a pause, Finn continues to take the party forward.
- After 20 minutes walking, Luna sees that we are approaching another tiled section of the forest.
- On the ground, the party sees familiar shapes they have passed before in the forest.
- Finn draws a cat face in the snow. She then notices that caught on a briar bush next to her was the shriveled form of a squirrel.
- She reaches out to take the squirrel, and the brambles reach out and lash at her. Her blood is sucked into the vegetation.
- The party goes around in circles for awhile. They try to investigate, but don't learn much.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) tries to pet the briars, but she, too, is struck, just a Finn. Her blood is quickly absorbed.
- Gimble reasons aloud that they may need to investigate the center of the forest, but the party does not heed him.

### Weed Whacking

- Finn decides to talk to the briars. She asks for help. No response. She then throws snow on it with predictable results.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) decides to *Produce Flame* and throws it at the nearest bramble. There is high-pitched hiss. That part of the briar ducks under the snow to put the fire out. Horns hits it again with the same effect. He continues the attack. The briars nearby slowly advance towards him.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) ignites his weapon with a *Crimson Rite* and prepares to attack.
- From beneath Horns, a vine lashes up against him.
- Gray strikes a briar and restrains it as it attempts to duck below the snow.
- Other vines snake up below Gray and restrain him as well.
- Oneshoe casts *Infestation* against a different section of the briars, but there seems to be little effect.
- Finn begins to pull [Hew](/dnd/notes/hew) out to menace the vegetation. However, as she does so, she immediately is filled with a sense of dread, and she quickly decides to put the axe away.
- Gimble tries to find a clearing, but finds none. He casts *Detect Thoughts* to see if he gets a ping of any intelligence, but he senses nothing but the party's thoughts.
- Horns casts a *Flaming Sphere* and then turns into a fire elemental. It's on.
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val) casts *Investiture of Flame* on herself. She emits a line of fire into the forest. She is also attacked by the briars, but they hold back a bit from her flaming form.
- Gray continues to take damage from the thorns. He wriggles out of the briars binding him and retreats. Gray notices that despite the heavy flames from the druids, the snow is very resilient to melting.
- Gimble takes his time to observe the surroundings. He notices that the briars are only responding to violence with violence, so he decides to hold off an attack and better understand the situation.
- Oneshoe decides to throw a vial of holy water at the briars. While it does not seem to do damage, the water itself is eagerly drawn in by the vines.
- She investigates further, and deduces that the vines are all desiccated. She decides to user her magical tankard gifted from Horns to douse the vines.
- Horns as a fire elemental continues with his assault. He is making some progress but has been taking a fair bit of damage as well.
- Seeing Oneshoe's earlier actions, Val decides to cast *Tidal Wave* against the briars around thorns. The vines suck up all the water they can.

### A Girl in the Woods

- Suddenly Gray and Val hear the quiet creak of a bow string nearby. They see standing on a tree branch a small girl with a bow as tall as she is. She wears a crimson cloak. She asks the group what they hell they are doing.
- Meanwhile, Horns is still raging at the briars as a fire elemental.
- The girl shouts, "Stop it!" and she hits him with an arrow. Horns doesn't notice at first, but when he does, he continues fighting anyway.
- Gray shouts to the girl that he is going to calm Horns down and uses his *Decanter of Endless Water* to issue a geyser of water against the fire elemental.
- This finally convinces Horns to cease his assault.
- The girl cautiously lowers the bow and hops down to approach the group. She looks malnourished and quite young (later she states proudly that she is 15). Has fair, golden hair under the hood. She stares the party down with a look of defiance.
- Gray engages her in conversation, as he is the only one that speaks Sylvan.
- Meanwhile, Val hears in her head the voice of [Soliandar](/dnd/npcs/soliandar). He says, "that can't be right. Is that [Dwynwen](/dnd/npcs/dwynwen)?" Val asks about that, and the Soliandar says that was his daughter. 
- Val asks the girl if she is Dwynwen, who startles at the question. The girl asks how she knows her mother's named
- Oneshoe notices that the girl almost goes to tears when she hears her mother's name.
- "Are we in [The Briarheart](/dnd/locations/the-briarheart)?", the bow asks Val.
- Recovering, the girl introduces herself as [Ffywellyn](/dnd/npcs/ffywellyn), the warden of the forest, and she doesn't seem to trust Horns at all.
- Ffywellyn asks for the help of the party. She says the the snow has frozen everything, and it has made her grandmother mad.
- Val converses with Soliandar more for context. He says he used to be something like a Dryad that [Eiddwyn](/dnd/npcs/ffywellyn) was his last love.
- As he got older, Soliandar faded into a tree. Someone made a bow out of that tree, and a shard of his essence came along. Eventually, that bow found Val.

### Into the Briarheart

- The party follows Ffywellyn further into the center of the forest. They cross a frozen river, and then come upon a very large, very old tree. Within the tree, one can just barely make out the suggestion of two bodies, male and female. They are locked in a wooden embrace.
- Ffywellyn introduces the figures as her grandparents. She says the problem is the water is frozen, and her grandmother has nothing to drink.
- Gray passes over the *Decanter of Endless Water*. She marvels. He explains how it works. She says that her mom would probably have something like that.
- At mention of her mom, she tears up. The party notices a recently erected grave marker near the hut.
- Ffywellyn explains that she lost her a few months ago. She says if she ever sees the [The Prince of Frost](/dnd/npcs/the-prince-of-frost) again, she's gonna kill him.
- Oneshoe asks for more info about that. The prince killed her mom. She tried to protect the forest, and he killed her for it.
- Val decides to talk with the tree on the behalf of Soliandar. She implores her to speak. Val speaks to the tree in Druidic. There is no clear response, but she feels the message has been received.
- Val wants to stay the night. The girl says the party is welcome to stay.
- Off to the side, there is a modest little hut, and Ffywellyn leads the party inside.
- As she enters her home, she calls out, "[Tom](/dnd/npcs/tom), I'm back, and I've brought friends." From the kitchen, another figure pokes his head out. He is short and looks like a humanoid bunny. Black fur. He is a bit startled at first, but then he welcomes the party.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Soliyandar](/dnd/npcs/soliyandar) 

### New

- [Dwynwen](/dnd/npcs/dwynwen)
- [Ffywellyn](/dnd/npcs/ffywellyn)
- [Tom](/dnd/npcs/tom)
- [Eiddwyn](/dnd/npcs/eiddwyn)
- [The Prince of Frost](/dnd/npcs/the-prince-of-frost)

### Mentioned

- [The DJ](/dnd/npcs/the-dj)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment  | Count | Item                        | Source                                       | Destination                             | Notes                                                                 |
| ----------- | ----- | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Transferred | 1     | *Decanter of Endless Water* | [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) | [Ffywellyn](/dnd/npcs/ffywellyn.md) | Given to help slake the thirst of [The Briarheart](/dnd/locations/the-briarheart). |

## Trivia

- This may be the most druidic we have ever seen Val.

