---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-03-20
description: In which a party must be thrown.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - The DJ
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
summary: >
  The party is whisked away to celebrate a birthday with a DJ who doesn't take No for an answer.
title: Go Shawty
url: /dnd/posts/2024-03-20/go-shawty

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-08 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Embarking

- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) casts _Mage Armor_ on [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx).
- He also manifests a *Phantom Steed*, named Cerulean. Nyx is a bit nervous at first, but she joins.
- The party notices some snickering in the bushes. Gimble calls it out.
- A creature comes out from the brush. It is very small. It has pale blue dragonfly wings on its back. Bright white hair under a hat. It welcomes the party.
- He introduces himself as [Duran](/dnd/npcs/duran).
- He says that one of the party members is having a birthday. He does cold reading on the group and focuses on [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe).
- Duran reaches into his bag and blows out some dust which forms into iridescent sparkles.

### It's Ya Birthday

- The party looks up to see the night sky, and then they realize they are in a new place.
- They are in a clearing with a mild sunny day and a picnic table.
- Gimble examines the surroundings closely. He doesn't detect any magical illusion.
- The picnic table is covered with all kinds of party favors. There are temporary tattoos available as well. There are refreshments on the table. Oneshoe is pretty sure its her birthday.
- There is another table behind us, with someone attending it. The figure looks like a gnome of some variety, dressed in green garb. He begins playing a song from his homeland, which sounds like *Fields of Gold* by Sting.
- Oneshoe decides she doesn't like the song and throws a boomerang at the instruments to make them stoop.
- Gimble notices that [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx) is not present. He begins to freak out. He approaches the attendant and demands to know where Nyx is. The attendant said that Nyx was not in a party mood. Gimble says he isn't either. The attendant disappears and appears again elsewhere. He says it is time to get the party started.
- Gimble tries to cast *Sending* to Nyx, but he is blocked by [The DJ](/dnd/npcs/the-dj).
- Gimble tries to use the "faerie verse of pleasant disagreement" on the DJ, but the figure just laughs and tosses him a gold coin.
- Oneshoe sneaks up and does an ultimate wedgie on the DJ; however, she is intercepted. The DJ instead starts to dance with her, and then throws her into the house.
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)enters, and soon the rest of the party begins to follow.
- Gimble hangs back and casts *Detect Thoughts*. He hears a continuous pulsing music: Party Hard. He probes deeper, and it only grows stronger. Gimble barely resists losing control of himself. He reluctantly follows the party inside. As he does, he casts *Protection from Good and Evil* on himself.

### Inside the Party House

- The DJ hands [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) a cup of lemonade.
- In the room in a pedestal with a stuffed animal, a cat. It is missing a tail.
- There is a table there, and there is a donkey tail on it.
- Oneshoe investigates the pedestals and founds a small, hidden shelf. There is a note: "Pin the tail on the donkey."
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) picks up the tail and attempts to pin it on the stuffed cat, without success.
- Horns approaches Oneshoe with the tail.
- Just then, ghostly apparitions come in through the walls. They are instruments and they start playing Banamora.
- Horns pins the tail on Oneshoe, and she is polymorphed into a donkey.
- Gray then nonchalantly tries the next door, which opens easily.

### Into the Next Room

- There is a single lever sitting in the middle of the room. There is an apparition of the DJ in the middle of the room. He is surprised that Oneshoe became the donkey.
- The DJ looks pointedly at the lever and says, "10". After a moment, he says, "9".
- Oneshoe (as a donkey) investigates the lever.
- Gimble tries the door outside, but the knob doesn't turn.
- Oneshoe kicks the lever. This is followed by an apparition of a table with a pitcher of water and an empty glass next to it.
- Oneshoe investigates the new items, which seem like perfectly mundane objects.
- Zed plays around with the pitcher a bit.
- Gray fills the glass with water from the pitcher. The DJ claps three times, and then starts counting from 10 again.
- Horns pulls the lever again. The DJ stops counting. Again, shimmering into reality is a rocking chair. Horns sits in the rocking chair and rocks. The chair lifts up and drops him on the ground. The DJ starts counting again.
- Finn pulls the lever this time. A table apparates with a brush on it and full-length mirror.
- Zed uses the brush to brush out Oneshoe's mane. The DJ starts counting down again.
- Oneshoe stands in front of the lever and tries to prevent other from approaching. Horns decides to pull the lever anyway.
- Horns pulls the lever again. This time a kitchen counter appears, with a loaf of bread, a butter knife, and a pat of butter.
- Horns butters his bread. It disappears, and the DJ starts counting down.
- Horns goes to pull the lever again. Gray restrains Horns with his whip and pull him back.
- The DJ keeps counting. At 4, the light dims. 2, it is almost fully dark. 1. Pitch dark.
- 0. "Negative 1! Just kidding! You did it." The exit door opens.
- Gray releases Horns.
- The party goes through the door.

### Back in a Clearing

- There is another picnic table, covered with some kind of waxy covering.
- The DJ greets the party and creates a large birthday cake. It has the same color scheme as mooncolor.
- Oneshoe approaches the cake and decides to make a wish (she wishes to go back to where they were before). As soon as the flame goes out, the music goes out, and almost everything goes out.
- The DJ says that before they go, they must do presents first. The DJ directs the party to give presents to Oneshoe.
- Gray gives a T-shirt of Fire Resistance.
- Horns gives a magical tankard.
- Gimble gives her the *Deck of Many Kings*.
- Oneshoe takes a bite of the birthday cake. She shifts back to her normal gnomish self.
- Horns, Zed, and Finn eat the cake. Gray does after a moment. Gimble abstains.
- Those who do eat cake feel warm and comforted. 
- The DJ gives his goodbyes, and ends with the faerie verse of pleasant disagreement. Everything fades away.

### Back with Nyx

- The party finds themselves back where they were.
- It seems that the party has lost many of their items.
- There is a set of footprints walking away, which leads to a pile of their belongings. There is signs of a scuffle. One small dragonfly wing on the ground and then cat prints walking away.
- Those who ate the cake, they fill refreshed.
- Oneshoe finds that one of her inner pockets is heavy. It contains a wrapped package. Unwrapping it she finds a shimmering blue umbrella. She opens it. Gentle glitter rains down. It has a sense of protective enchantment on it.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)

### New

- [Duran](/dnd/npcs/duran)
- [The DJ](/dnd/npcs/the-dj)

### Mentioned

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment  | Count | Item                         | Source | Destination | Notes         |
| ----------- | ----- | ---------------------------- | ------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| Transferred | 1     | *Deck of Many Kings*         | Gimble | Oneshoe     | birthday gift |
| Transferred | 1     | *T-Shirt of Fire Resistance* | Gray   | Oneshoe     | birthday gift |
| Transferred | 1     | a magical tankard            | Horns  | Oneshoe     | birthday gift |
## Trivia

