---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-05-22
description: In which the Wild Hunt is narrowly avoided.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Lloi
  - Haeme
  - Willoughby the Whether Gnome
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
dnd/tags:
summary: >
  Willoughby flies the party to a quick stop near Summer before narrowly avoiding the Wild Hunt on the way towards the Spring Court. A mostly exhausted party pushes on and enters the domain of spring, finding lodging and a possible audience with the Spring Court.
title: Seasonal Destinations
url: /dnd/posts/2024-05-22/seasonal-destinations

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-09 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Initial Study into The Stone Knife Flashback

- Over the earlier overnight stay at [Ffywellyn](/dnd/npcs/Ffywellyn.md)'s hut, [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) conjures layers of protective enchantments and studies [The Stone Knife](/dnd/notes/the-stone-knife) from within the portable hole.
- This initial study shows that he is likely only barely scratching the surface of a deeply complex research project. The vibes that he gets from the knife matches the background magical weave of [The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild) itself.
### Dragonback Travel to Summer

- The party travels with [Willoughby the Whether Gnome](/dnd/npcs/willoughby-the-whether-gnome), who flies them towards [The Summer Court](/dnd/notes/the-summer-court)'s region. Willoughby explains that he can only take them so far, as he is bound by a covenant of neutrality which prohibits more direct involvement.
- During the flight, [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) investigates the dragon's scales as they fly, looking for imperfections but finding none.
- Gimble talks with Willoughby and asks questions about the Feywild, the fate of [Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania), and the Mad King. The dragon confirms the parties understanding of the events but does not offer much new information.

### Quick Stop outside of Summer

- Winter does not have a full hold here, but it is encroaching.
- Willoughby sets the party down in a clearing. There are tall and wide old trees around. It smells like the seasons are at war here.
- Trees are everywhere. [Val](/dnd/characters/val) finds the biggest, mossiest tree she can find. She places her hand on it, and names the tree, "Big Bertha".
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) finds his own tree and communes with it.
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) talks to the tress as well, and feels a spirit of yoga from within. He and [Bullwinkle](/dnd/npcs/bullwinkle) climb up a tree. As they descend, Zed is drenched with a huge pile of snow, which chills him to the bone.
- Gimble sends a message to [Lyra](/dnd/npcs/lyra-farsong), informing her that the party is chasing a lead. She says their status has not changed and has no new leads on research.
- There is a long conversation about whether they should stay and sleep first. Zed wants to build a palanquin on the dragon, but they don't have time or the materials.
- The party remounts the dragon and takes off.

### Close Call on the Way to Spring

- Horns decides to wildshape into a kitten and sleeps within a pack of one of the other party members.
- Some time into the journey, [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) becomes a little restless. He starts to get a bit aggressive and makes noise about needing to land to stretch his legs. The party senses that he is getting a little unreasonable. Willoughby notices this, looks at Gray with concern, and then immediately modifies his course. Gray is overcome with a feeling that he needs to join in a pursuit of prey. He smells something on the wind, but it starts to fades as they veer off their original course. Willoughby informs them that they had come uncomfortably close to the [The Wild Hunt](/dnd/notes/the-wild-hunt).
- Many hours later, the dragon begins his decent.
- Willoughby sets down. He says he is not able to go further, but he points out the valley which will lead the party towards [The Spring Court](/dnd/notes/the-spring-court).
- The terrain here is odd. Winter is somehow more severe and yet not as present here as compared to Summer Court.
- The party asks about the Spring Court, but Willoughby does not know much personally.
- As they part, Willoughby gives Zed a good-natured, but mighty high-five as he leaves, forcing the orc back several paces.
- Again, the party debates whether or not to take a rest. Worried about the Wild Hunt, they decide to press onwards, though some of them are now exhausted after the long journey.

### On the Path to the Spring Court

- Gimble manifests his *Phantom Steed* for himself and [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx) to ride.
- Zed casts *Greater Restoration* on Val to remove the exhaustion.
- The party presses onward. The journey goes well. The snow starts to recede as they progress.
- There are fields of flowers that display dazzling rainbows of color.
- Structures begin to come into view. They seem to be grown into their shapes. They have rice paper thin leaves which form the walls.
- Zed knocks on one of the doors. There is no immediate response. After more inspection, the party believes these are greenhouses of a sort.
- Zed opens one of the doors and calls out again. He is met by an overpowering aroma of flowers. He can see a wide variety of flora.
- The party continues onward. The snow has more or less stopped at this point. It feels pretty solidly like spring right as the party sees larger signs of civilization.
- There are stone walls, farm structures, a community of some sort. Orchards. It is pastoral.
- Zed decorates his armor with flowers and makes a crown for Bullwinkle as they approach.
- The druids pick out some trees to "get to know".

### The Outskirts of the Spring Court

- The party continues towards a larger town. There is a gate, which some figures are guarding.
- Zed and the party approach the gate and hail the figures there.
- One of the guards seems largely made of wood--a tall creature, taller than Zed. Glowing yellow eyes. Leaves and mosses growing upon them.
- The other figure is much smaller. It appears to be another tuathan. She has black fur with two long ears tied behind her head. She is wearing some close-fitting robes and wields a quaterstaff.
- The tuathan tells the party to stop. In Sylvan, she demands to know who the party is and what is their business.
- Zed introduces himself as a member the Summer Court and then formally introduces his companions.
- The tuathan seems a bit on edge at first, but warms up a bit as Zed chats further.
- Zed tells the woman that the party is seeking to restore the balance. The woman smirks in amusement.
- When Zed later mentions that they have been sent by [Amelia](/dnd/npcs/amelia), the tuathan seems taken aback. She asks if the party has been contracted by [The Order of the Paw](/dnd/notes/the-order-of-the-paw). Her disposition shifts into action.
- At last the tuathan introduces herself as [Lloi](/dnd/npcs/lloi). She says she is a member of the royal guard and she will provide the party with a place to rest and possibly and audience.
- She has the party follow her through the gate.

### Within the Gates

- The party follows Lloi through the town. There is all the bustle of a lazy Sunday morning. Sprites, faeries, firbolgs, and other folk are about.
- Along the way, Zed asks many questions of Lloi, trying to learn the local customs.
- Lloi leads the party to a very hobbit-like structure cut into a hillside. There is an elaborately carved sign, "The Floral Zephyr". It is an old, immaculately carved inn. Lloi enters and walks up to the counter. She speaks to the firbolg behind the counter, named [Haeme](/dnd/npcs/haeme), and tells them that the guests are to have rooms by order of the royal guard.
- Lloi will see if the [Lady Tiandra](/dnd/npcs/lady-tiandra) is available. She gives a curt nod and leaves.
- Gray wants to know if this place has drinks. Haeme gives him great big mug of kombucha. Gray is exhausted and slumps over the counter, resigned to his drink. However, after a moment, Gray decides kombucha is not for him. Meanwhile, nearby Horns is all smiles, drinking a frosty mug of beer.
- Zed asks for "room seeds". The floors in the building are hard-packed earth. There is apparently a tradition of planting things on the floor for the next guests to find. Haeme happily provides some seeds to zed.
- With concern, Haeme asks Zed how he is holding up with how things are going with the Summer Court.
- Zed turns on the charm and engages locals in conversation to learn about the state of things.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [Willoughby the Whether Gnome](/dnd/npcs/willoughby-the-whether-gnome)

### New

- [Lloi](/dnd/ncps/lloi)
- [Haeme](/dnd/npcs/haeme)

### Mentioned

- [Amelia](/dnd/npcs/amelia)
- [Lady Tiandra](/dnd/npcs/lady-tiandra)
- [Oberon](/dnd/npcs/oberon)
- [Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment | Count | Item | Source | Destination | Notes |
| ---------- | ----- | ---- | ------ | ----------- | ----- |

## Trivia

