---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-02-07
description: In which Finn makes snow angels.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Lyra Farsong
  - Willoughby the Whether Gnome
  - Queen Titania
  - Oberon
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
summary: The party finds itself back in the Feywild, much changed. Winter reigns. Nyx remains unresponsive. A frigid night brings visions. Gray recounts the danger of the Wild Hunt. Hoping for options, the group heads towards a fey crossing and reaches out to friends for answers.
title: Frozen
url: /dnd/posts/2024-02-07/frozen

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-07 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### A Frozen Feywild

- The party finds themselves in the Jeffwilds, but it is not as they remember. The landscape is covered in snow, and flurries fall from the sky. It is uncomfortably cold. The shy mountain does not seem to be visible.
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) begins a ceremony to re-summon [Bullwinkle](/dnd/npcs/bullwinkle). They commune a bit telepathically.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns) flys up to get his bearings, but he cannot see anything.
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx) is still catatonic. [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) tries to rouse her to no effect. He pulls out an extra robe from his haversack and wraps it around her, pulling her under the shelter of some trees. He begins casting tiny hut.
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) makes some snow angels, and Horns throws a snowball at her from the air.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) gets her bearings and examines the surroundings.
- Gimble chats with [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) about his knowledge of [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber). Gray reprises his story about how he became Gray, taking his identity.
- Some party members doubt Nyx's condition and try to scare her awake. Nyx does not respond. Gimble tries a different approach and makes her some tea in an attempt to calm her down. She takes the tea, but her eyes are still vacant.
- They decide to get some sleep and set watches.
- The snow continues, sometime harder, sometimes lighter. The cold is pervasive. Very different to previous time in [The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild).

### Finn's Dream

- Finn is an owl in her dream. She receives a visitor. A feminine form agains the full moon.
- Finn says, "Hello, Shadow person." It says it wanted to check up on her.
- They chat for a bit.
- Finn reaches up to the moon. It grows bigger and bigger. It turns golden and fills the entire space.
- Finn is suddenly in a new place. In an old elven place, a city. It is familiar to her.

### Gray's Dream

- A large moon, from which forms two shadowy eyes, a porcelain mask.
- The raven queen states that Gray is playing a risky game by being here--the Wild Hunt.
- She states she owes him an apology. She mentions "the white raven". She mentions an infiltration. There are traitors among her flock. The white bird he can still trust. The rest may or may not be trusted.

### The Next Day

_DR 1492-09-08 (Elient, The Fading)_

- The party wakes up. Nyx is still fairly unresponsive.
- Gimble reaches out with his magical senses to probe her thoughts, hoping for some sign. However, he is unsuccessful reading into Nyx. Deep within her mind, she just seems...empty. Everyone seems anxious and on edge.
- Gray lays out his position. He has been warned many times not to return to the Feywild. The Wild Hunt will come for him. Gray also expresses frustration at how the confrontation with Timber went down.
- After some discussion, the party decides to head towards the the last fey crossing they used. Finn leads the way. She seems confident in the direction, but does not know how long the journey will be.
- As they walk on, each party member has their own thoughts.
- Gimble casts a *Sending* to [Willoughby the Whether Gnome](/dnd/npcs/willoughby-the-whether-gnome), who agrees to try to meet the party at the crossing if he can make it.
- Gimble then casts two sendings to [Lyra Farsong](/dnd/npcs/lyra-farsong) to ask about status of the Summer Court and offer help. At first, Lyra seems distrustful and angry at the contact, but she softens a bit as the conversation goes on. Lyra explains that the Summer Court is under siege from the forces of Winter, and things do not look good. [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania) still slumbers, and they do not have a cure. They need help.

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)
- [Val](/dnd/characters/val)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed)

### Returning

- [Lyra Farsong](/dnd/npcs/lyra-farsong)
- [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx)
- [Willoughby the Whether Gnome](/dnd/npcs/willoughby-the-whether-gnome)

### New

### Mentioned

- [Oberon](/dnd/npcs/oberon)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)
- [Timber](/dnd/npcs/timber)

## Quotations

## Inventory

## Trivia

