---

author:
  - Jonathan
date: 2024-06-26
description: In which the party tries hallucinegens.
dnd/ref/characters:
  - Nyx
  - Queen Titania
  - Lady Tiandra
  - Lloi
  - Hayne
  - The Mad King
dnd/ref/locations:
  - The Feywild
summary: >
  Horns has an overnight adventure with the local druids, Gimble succeeds in getting a glimpse of Finn's lost family, and an audience with Lady Tiandra leads the party to a vision quest.
title: Spring Break
url: /dnd/posts/2024-06-26/spring-break

---

## Scaena et Tempore

_[The Feywild](/dnd/locations/the-feywild)_

_DR 1492-09-09 (Elient, The Fading)_

## Synopsis

### Winding Down for the Night

- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora) hands [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn) his mostly unfinished kombucha. Gray tries to instruct [Hayne](/dnd/npcs/hayne) into how to make a Bloody Mary.
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe) is enjoying herself with the magical tankard.
- Some of the party members, exhausted, retire to their rooms to rest.

### Horns' Overnight Adventure

- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns), having already rested on the dragon, steps out into the evening. He finds other farmers and works with them. He casts *Plant Growth* for eight hours to enrich the land.
- Since the land nearby is already magical augmented, it is more like he is joining in the existing energies, rather than changing anything.
- Hours into the spell, Horns is surprised to see the face of [Levistus](/dnd/npcs/levistus) upon one of the nearby firbolgs. Looking back, the image is gone.

### The Next Day

_DR 1492-09-10 (Elient, The Fading)_

- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed) and anyone else who planted their seeds find that the plant has already grown about 14 inches tall.
- The party finds some fresh, raw fruit and veggies available for them in the lobby.
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner) casts *Telepathic Bond* upon the group before they head out to the common area.
- A bit later in the morning, [Lloi](/dnd/npcs/lloi) returns. She says that the group may have an audience in a few hours. The party has some time to kill.
- Sensing an opportunity, Gimble approaches Finn and asks if she would like him to try using his magic to locate her missing family.
- Finn seems a bit reluctant but eventually says yes.

### Scrying

- Gimble asks Finn bring out the old wine label she keeps with her, the one possession that ties her to her lost family. He then asks Finn to think hard and describe anything she remembers about them.
- Finn describes her family. Her parents: short like Finn. They played harmonica, and "the stringy one".  There was her Mom, [Claire](/dnd/npcs/claire), and [Ben](/dnd/npcs/ben). She had a brother named [Fern](/dnd/npcs/fern).
- Through research done by the readers at [Candlekeep](/dnd/locations/candlekeep), the party also learned that the wine label came from somewhere in the Feywild know as the [Cloven Coven Corkhouse](/dnd/locations/clove-coven-corkhouse).
- With the wine label as focus Gimble brings out his scrying chest and performs the ritual to seek out Finn's family.
- In time, a cloudy image forms.
    - Gimble hears chatter, music, a jaunty waltz.
    - Mom looks a bit like the barmaid in the Lord of the Rings. Crazy hair. Plays the harmonica. Bubbly persona. There are others. They all have red hair, like Finn. The woman is yelling at who might be Fern, perhaps in a good-natured way.
    - Fern appears to be a lanky-for-a-halfling youth. He was flirting with some girl.
    - The mom is next to a fence. On the other side there is a slimy trail. At the end of this is a snail. It looks like there is actually snail racing going on here! There are saddles on them with halfling jockeys atop. There is a sign, "C & B's Snail Racing."
    - Looking around the scene, there seems to be big-top tents--a circus, perhaps.
- When the vision clears, Gimble relates what he saw to Finn. She seems to have mixed feelings about the prospect of finding her parents.
- Oneshoe and others ask questions about Gimble's vision.
- Back in the lobby, the party asks Hayne about snail racing, and if there any carnivals in the Feywild. Hayne mentions [The Witchlight Carnival](/dnd/locations/the-witchlight-carnival). Hayne is enamored of the gnome slam poetry which sometimes goes on there.
- The Witchlight Carnival might be a "few days nightward of the Summer Court".
- When the party asks what they can do for Hayne, he gives Gimble a sketch of a gnome with the caption, "[The Marvelous Fizwelk](the-marvelous-fizwelk)". Hayne would dearly love it to be autographed, if they could manage it.

### Exploring the Town

- Lots of farms, well-trodden paths. Lots of tiny bridges adorning well-kept gardens. For the Feywild, it feels strangely mundane.
- Lots of herb shops. Hacky sacks shops. Finn buys one. A hacky sack, not a shop.
- Horns haggles to buy some diamond dust from a vendor, an old gnome with a balding head. Gray steps in when Horns has trouble and completes the purchase.

### Lloi Escorts the Party

- Lloi finds the party and says they are ready for an audience.
- She escorts the party through the walls of the Spring Court.
- As the party crests a hill, they see in the distance a large plaza, with a gigantic weeping willow tree in the middle. It seems large enough to cover a small village.
- The party approaches.
- Many folks of various species stand about, armed and vigilant.
- There is a moat-like pond around the tree. Large lily pads float along the water.

### Audience with Tiandra

- Stepping out from the tree itself is [Lady Tiandra](/dnd/npcs/the-lady-tiandra). She looks a bit similar to a dryad. She seems both younger than and older than the dryads the party has met. The magic users get the vibe that she is far older than she appears. She matches some of the visual components of the willow tree.
- Gray tells Tiandra of their desire to restore [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania).
- Tiandra says she knows who might be able to help, [Lady Mayweather](dnd/npcs/lady-mayweather). But it will be challenging. It will require a vision quest.
- The questions further. Tiandra states that The Mad King may not be unhappy with Titania's predicament. She did something to him.
- Some more questions, but few answers.
- The party prepares to submit to the vision quest.

### Vision Quest

- A group of firbolgs and others form a drum circle and prepares some potion for the party to drink.
- A brief conversation with [Nyx](/dnd/npcs/nyx) about whether she should join. She says she will try it.
- The party all decide to go, and they drink down the potions, and the drum circle starts.
- Nothing seems to happen at first, but then nearby shapes start to change.
- The party starts to trip. Eventually, they see and old gnomish lady, very slight, not much left in the world.
- She starts to sing.

> _In the blue camhanaich all shimmering still_
> _Dame Calluna, low Lady of the Hills_
> _Cup of cold sun and a winterpill_
> _Send me back on my way_
> _Seven black rabbits of Hy-Brasil_
> _Twenty-one petals of daffodils_
> _Thirteenth note of the blackcap trill_
> _I'll fly home today_

## Dramatis Personae

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn)
- [Gimble](/dnd/characters/gimble-the-diviner)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe)

### Returning

- [Lloi](/dnd/npcs/lloi)
- [Hayne](dnd/npcs/hayne)

### New

- [Lady Mayweather](dnd/npcs/lady-mayweather)
- [Lady Tiandra](dnd/npcs/lady-tiandra)

### Mentioned

- [Ben](dnd/npcs/ben)
- [Claire](dnd/npcs/claire)
- [Fern](dnd/npcs/fern)
- [Levistus](/dnd/npcs/levistus)
- [The Mad King](dnd/npcs/the-mad-king)
- [The Marvelous Fizwelk](the-marvelous-fizwelk)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/npcs/queen-titania)

## Quotations

## Inventory

| Adjustment | Count | Item | Source | Destination | Notes |
| ---------- | ----- | ---- | ------ | ----------- | ----- |

## Trivia

