---
title: "32: The Katabasis, Part 1"
date: 2017-06-16T19:27:50-07:00
description: "In which a volcano is entered."
---

32: The Katabasis, Part 1 (2017-06-16)

(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Hael, Horns, Val)

_20 Uktar 1491 DR_

The Menagerie spends the night in the mouth of the lava tube that opens up onto the side of Mt. Hotenow. In the morning, they discover a small collection of shiny things that was the yeti's hoard. Some of these things are useless junk, like broken vials or scraps of bent metal. Others are items like gold coins, a few mundane weapons, and a +1 _Wand of the War Caster._ They begin to progress into the tunnel, and Gorstag soon catches them up.

Led by Reidoth, they snake further and further into the dark tunnel, and they discuss plans and possibilities. Hael spends a few moments trying to connect with the Nameless Wolf, and the deity suffuses his essence with purpose, and anticipation of the hunt.

The hours pass and the tunnel slowly grows warmer as they draw closer to the volcanic heart of the mountain. In the distance, they see the glow of distant lava as the tube opens up onto the upper caldera, and silhouetted against its light are two devilish figures. Horns' _pass without a trace_ allows the Menagerie a surprise round, and then some amount of hell begins to break loose.

Our ""heroes"" manage to gain a view of the caldera as they move into combat. A great spiral staircase twists slowly downward around the ever-widening conical walls of the caldera chamber, each step a solid block of black iron pounded into the very rock. Scattered around the cavern also are various outposts of the same decor, suspended from the stone of the mountain by heavy iron beams. Several of these structures are connected by swaying chain-and-grate bridges, cris-crossing the open middle of the chamber.

The start of the battle is in the party's favor, as only a handful of devils are in close proximity to the tunnel. However, it's not long before the alarm is raised and more fiends begin mounting an offense against the intrepid adventurers. Bearded devils begin to charge up the staircase, brandishing poisonous tentacles and infernal glaives; spined devils take to the air on leathern wings and harry the party with tail-flung spikes from a distance; barbed devils can take a beating and hurl balls of fire. The Menagerie is (mostly) undaunted - Val spider-climbs on the wall and summons boars; Hael's form shifts into that of a werewolf and he tosses devils into the lava far below; Finn, Gorstag, and Horns the polar bear present a powerful frontline; Gimble does his level best to be helpful without also being exposed; and old man Reidoth clocks a few devils with his trusty _shillelagh_'d quarterstaff.

The incursion has only just begun, however. The strength of the fiendish garrison is yet unknown, and it's a long way down.
