---
title: OG Landing Page
date: 2016-06-03T09:19:09-07:00
---

import campaign,"_""The sky is gray and tinged with regret.""_

###

`import campaign` is a Seattle-based fifth-edition _Dungeons & Dragons_ campaign run by a Python developer for several other Python developers (...plus a couple folks who aren't). The campaign started out taking the players through the _Lost Mines of Phandelver_ module, and is now going off the rails into custom content.

We meet every other Friday, and sometimes we'll tweet about it with [#importcampaign](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23importcampaign&src=typd).

# Links

### [Session Summaries](session-summaries)

### [Player Characters](player-characters)

### [Non-Player Characters](non-player-characters)

### [The Calendar of Harptos](calendar-harptos) _(SCAG 14-15)_"

Player Characters,"[TOC]

# Active Characters

## Finn

Halfling Barbarian

_(the ""conjurer"")_

## Gimble

Gnome Wizard

_(the diviner)_

## Hael

Half-Drow Blood Hunter (Order of the Lycan)

_(previously Gray)_

_(previously a paladin)_

_(previously deceased)_

## Horns

Tiefling Druid

## Val

Wood Elf Druid

# Inactive Characters

## Gorstag

Human Fighter

## Ivor Borst

Human Barbarian

## Orsik Stoneskin

Dwarf Monk

## JSON

Wood Elf Bard

(out on tour)

## Kithri Tealeaf

Halfling Rogue

## Mindartis

Wood Elf Rogue

(somewhere else)

## Zane a Presque Du'Cal

Half-Elf Bard

(deceased, savaged by a Gray wolf)"
Non-Player Characters,"[TOC]

### Lyra Farsong

- Race: Human
- Location: ???

The sole survivor after a marauding orcish band killed her journeying family, 12-year-old Lyra was imprisoned by those same orcs alongside Val. After the party freed her in Leaffall of 1491 DR, the traumatized girl was sent to live with her aunt [Emily](#wiki-toc-emily-taryn) and uncle [Blinn](#wiki-toc-blinn-taryn) in Neverwinter (after she was almost stolen away by sprites).

Later in The Rotting of that year when the party visited Neverwinter, Val checked in on Lyra and learned from her distraught aunt that the girl had been taken out for lunch two weeks prior by Val (or at least, someone that looked like Val) and never returned.

### Sildar Hallwinter

- Race: Human
- Occupation: Officer in the Lord's Alliance
- Location: Phandalin

Was rescued from goblins by _The Menagerie_; currently spending time in Phandalin in an attempt to guide the town's growth and recovery after the Rebdrand occupation and the reopening of the lost mine in Wave Echo Cave.

### Trynna Briegarden

- Race: Halfling
- Occupation: Merchant, Tinkerer
- Location: Neverwinter

Inventor of the douche (also known as a shower _(non-canonical)_).

...all these, plus the cast of the _Lost Mines of Phandelver_ module"
Session Summaries,"### [43: Fomorian Forward Camp, Part 1 (2018-03-09)](43-fomorian-forward-camp-part-1)

In which cloaks turn out be not-cloaks.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Val, Zed)_

### [Interlude: The Sunless Citadel, Part 4 (2018-03-03)](interlude-sunless-citadel-part-4)

In which a dragon is ""managed.""

_Guest DM: Jonathan_

_(Endymion, Ol' One Shot, Reginald, Tinder)_

### [42: The Crimson Bulwark (2018-02-16)](42-crimson-bulwark)

In which the Menagerie grows a little larger.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Oneshoe, Val, Zed)_

### [41: A Friend On The Inside (2018-02-02)](41-friend-inside)

In which the party gains access to the Court of Stars.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Val)_

### [40: What Fever Dreams May Come (2018-01-12)](40-what-fever-dreams-may-come)

In which the characters learn something about one another.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [39: Unexpected Guests (2017-12-01)](39-unexpected-guests)

In which a surprising dinner party is attended.

_(Finn, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Kithri)_

### [38: The Bookwyrm (2017-11-04)](38-bookwyrm)

In which the party learns the secret at the top of the tower of the Thoughtstealer goblin tribe.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Ivor, Val)_

### [37: Feywild 101 (2017-10-20)](37-feywild-101)

In which a Tuathan is startled, and the party become members of Goblin Hood's Merry Men.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Gorstag, Ivor, Val)_

### [Interlude: The Tomb of Gauntletvania (2017-10-06)](interlude-tomb-gauntletvania)

In which I reskin the _Tomb of Horrors_ module into a retro videogame experience like _Gauntlet_ or _Castlevania_.

### [36: The Mission (2017-09-08)](36-mission)

In which a portal is closed.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [35: The Katabasis, Part 4 (2017-08-25)](35-katabasis-part-4)

In which the party goes to hell.

_(Finn, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [34: The Katabasis, Part 3 (2017-08-18)](34-katabasis-part-3)

In which the bottom of a volcano is reached.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [Interlude: Everyone Is Twentieth Level (2017-07-20)](interlude-everyone-twentieth-level)

_Guest DM: Austin_

### [33: The Katabasis, Part 2 (2017-07-11)](33-katabasis-part-2)

In which many devils are defeated.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Val)_

### [Interlude: The Sunless Citadel, Part 3 (2017-06-23)](interlude-sunless-citadel-part-3)

_Guest DM: Jonathan_

_(Endymion, Lulubell, Ol' One Shot, Reginald, Tinder)_

### [32: The Katabasis, Part 1 (2017-06-16)](32-katabasis-part-1)

In which a volcano is entered.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Hael, Horns, Val)_

### [31: What's In A Name? (2017-06-02)](31-whats-name)

In which Lyra has been lost.

_(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Val)_

### [Interlude: The Sunless Citadel, Part 2 (2017-05-12)](interlude-sunless-citadel-part-2)

_Guest DM: Jonathan_

_(Endymion, Ol' One Shot, Tinder, Doge)_

### [Interlude: The Sunless Citadel, Part 1 (2017-04-28)](interlude-sunless-citadel-part-1)

_Guest DM: Jonathan_

_(Endymion, Lulubell, Ol' One Shot, Tinder)_

### [30: Thundertree: The Devil You Know, and Were Is Gray (2017-04-14)](30-thundertree-devil-you-know-and-were-gray)

In which Horns' past comes to light and Zane is killed.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, Zane)_

### [29: Thundertree: Here There Be Dragon(""Cultist"")s (2017-03-31)](29-thundertree-here-there-be-dragoncultists)

In which Thundertree is explored.

_(Gimble, Horns, Zane)_

### [28: Thundertree: Stay Awhile And Listen (2017-03-17)](28-thundertree-stay-awhile-and-listen)

In which an old druid is discovered.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Horns, Zane)_

### [27: Forests Are Better Than Open Roads (2017-03-03)](27-forests-are-better-open-roads)

In which the dangerous path is taken.

_(Gimble, Gorstag, Horns, Zane)_

### [26: Tut Tut, It Looks Like Rain (2017-02-17)](26-tut-tut-it-looks-rain)

In which a gnome is introduced.

_(Finn, Gorstag, Horns, Orsik, Zane)_

### [25: Tresendar Manor: Cellar, Part 2 (2017-02-03)](25-tresendar-manor-cellar-part-2)

In which a goblin is unceremoniously dispatched.

_(Gimble, Horns, Mindartis, Zane)_

### [24: Tresendar Manor: Cellar, Part 1 (2017-01-20)](24-tresendar-manor-cellar-part-1)

In which a new member joins the party.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Horns, Zane)_

### [23: Battle at Tresendar Manor (2017-01-06)](23-battle-tresendar-manor)

In which a party member dies.

_(Finn, Gimble, Horns, Ivor, Gray)_

### [22: Gnomish ""Diplomacy"" (2016-12-16)](22-gnomish-diplomacy)

In which Gimble starts a fight.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Ivor, Mindartis)_

### [21: Wave Echo Cave Revisited, Part 2 (2016-12-02)](21-wave-echo-cave-revisited-part-2)

In which a wraith is encountered.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [20: Wave Echo Cave Revisited, Part 1 (2016-11-18)](20-wave-echo-cave-revisited-part-1)

In which a flaming skull is re-killed.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, Val)_

### [19: Gettin' Prepped (2016-11-11)](19-gettin-prepped)

In which the party steels themselves to reenter a cave.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [18: Lord Ashewood's Party, Part 2 (2016-11-04)](18-lord-ashewoods-party-part-2)

In which a mystery is solved.

_(Finn, Gray, Horns, Ivor)_

### [17: Lord Ashewood's Party, Part 1 (2016-10-28)](17-lord-ashewoods-party-part-1)

In which a dinner party goes awry.

_(Finn, Gray, Horns, Ivor)_

### [16: In Memoriam: Bailey (2016-10-14)](16-memoriam-bailey)

In which Lyra is escorted to Neverwinter.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Gray, Horns, Ivor, Val)_

### [15: Wave Echo Cave, Part 5 (2016-10-07)](15-wave-echo-cave-part-5)

In which a dear companion is killed.

_(Finn, Horns, Gray, Ivor)_

### [14: Wave Echo Cave, Part 4 (2016-09-30)](14-wave-echo-cave-part-4)

In which events get out of hand.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, Val)_

### [13: Wave Echo Cave, Part 3 (2016-09-23)](13-wave-echo-cave-part-3)

In which a nemesis is killed.

_(Finn, Gray, Horns, Val)_

### [12: Wave Echo Cave, Part 2 (2016-09-16)](12-wave-echo-cave-part-2)

In which a nemesis escapes.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Gray, Horns, Mindartis, Val)_

### [11: Wave Echo Cave, Part 1 (2016-09-09)](11-wave-echo-cave-part-1)

In which magic has gone wrong.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Horns, JSON, Mindartis, Val)_

### [10: (Un)Living History (2016-08-26)](10-unliving-history)

In which Gimble is exposed to a new school of thought.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Horns, Ivor, Kithri, Mindartis, Val)_

### [09: What's Val's Alignment Again...? (2016-08-19)](09-whats-vals-alignment-again)

In which a friend is rescued and a new acquaintance is made.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gray, Val)_

### [08: A Date With A Banshee (2016-08-05)](08-date-banshee)

In which a conversation is had with a banshee.

_(Finn, Gimble, Gorstag, Gray Horns)_

### [07: With Great Power Comes Great Irresponsibility (2016-07-29)](07-great-power-comes-great-irresponsibility)

In which a battle goes worse than anticipated.

### [06: The Assault on Cragmaw Castle (2016-07-15)](06-assault-cragmaw-castle)

In which a map is fought for (and won).

### [05: Cragmaw Castle: The Patented Colville Screw (2016-07-08)](05-cragmaw-castle-patented-colville-screw)

In which a rescue mission is only partially completed.

### [04: Cragmaw Hideout, Revisited (2016-07-01)](04-cragmaw-hideout-revisited)

In which a goblin is ""coerced"" into helping the party.

### [03: Cragmaw Hideout Part 2 (2016-06-24)](03-cragmaw-hideout-part-2)

In which Finn makes new friends.

### [02: Cragmaw Hideout Part 1 (2016-06-17)](02-cragmaw-hideout-part-1)

In which a regime is toppled.

### [01: Introduction (2016-06-10)](01-introduction)

In which an adventure begins.

### 00: Character Creation (2016-06-03)
