---
title: "37: Feywild 101"
date: 2017-10-20T19:36:04-07:00
description: "In which a Tuathan is startled, and the party become members of Goblin Hood's Merry Men."
---

37: Feywild 101 (2017-10-20)

The dusky lavender of twilight is still painted across the sky of the Feywild as the Menagerie stirs from their rest after falling into this new plane. Without warning, Haeltin disappears from the group; his companions are unable to trace his steps, and so they make their way to the edge of the forest.

As the trees give way to the long grasses of a hilly plain, they notice a small bit of smoke curling up from the end of a tiny cooking fire, attended to by an anthropomorphic fox. As they begin to approach, another arm of the destabilized portal opens in the sky, just long enough to cough a confused Gorstag into the Feywild, who lands unceremoniously by the campfire and frightens the Baator out of the fox. The party approaches, introduces themselves, calm the foxman, and learn that he is Caerwyn Cadogan, a traveling merchant of sorts. Caerwyn offers some of his meager stew to the group when Haeltin silently rejoins the group; unnoticed, he places his hand on Caerwyn's head and frightens the creature again.

The party learns that Caerwyn is of a race known as the tuathan, and after some conversation and soothing of Caerwyn's nerves, he asks if they had found ""her"". Noticing their confusion, he explains that they are currently in the Jeph Wilds, and that the forest is the home of the Reticent Mountain. Indeed, while the party is able to see the mountain from outside of the forest, attempts to glimpse it from within the woods are doomed to failure.

Caerwyn gives the party a very brief crash course on how to survive the Feywild: namely, by not pissing off any powerful fey or their servants. He teaches them a rhyme, should they walk into a chance encounter with any such entity while traveling:

_""Beneath the sun or falling rain, I yield to thee thy path again.""_

Gimble, intrigued by Caerwyn's declaration of merchant occupation, asks to see some of the tuathan's wares, and Caerwyn gladly obliges. After some display, a faerie puppet (and the accompanying command word) is sold to Finn for a few gold, and Gimble offers to trade one of Trynna's magical soaps to Caerwyn for a small favor. Impressed at how quickly the gnome seems to be adapting to life in the Feywild, Caerwyn accepts; the deal is one minor favor, and it expires after a year and a day.

The tuathan also makes mention of the Court of Stars, conducted by Queen Titania of the Summer Court and set to convene in a handful of days in the lofty reaches of High Senaliesse, a city built in the tops of the titanic white trees of the forest of the same name. Noticing Haeltin's drow lineage, Caerwyn recommends against requesting aid from the relatively-nearby eladrin city of Mithrendain, stating that while the eladrin that dwell there are powerful and good, time passes slowly and those eladrin are still strongly effected by the emotions which echo from the time when the progenitor elven race was torn into three - the betrayer drow, which were driven underground, the sun elves, which departed for the Material Plane, and the eladrin, which remained in the Feywild.

Caerwyn tells the party that he's going to the Court of Stars, and offers to let them accompany him. They accept, and they set out together.

After a cycle of rest (during which the sky never changes, and during which Finn plays kazoo while Caerwyn accompanies on lute), they come across a large flower in the woods of the Jeph Wilds, petals surrounding a surprisingly deep pool. After the party conducts some investigation, Caerwyn tosses a coin into the pool. Moments later, a beautiful, nude woman surfaces from the depths with a large gem and asks if anyone had dropped it. Ivor immediately lays claim to it, and the woman frowns at his blatant lie. She introduces herself as Nessa, and the party learns that she trades gems for minor magical enhancements (she does this for free, should a traveler prove honest in her test). for a few hundred GP worth of gems, she bestows _+1_ status to Val's shortbow and Gorstag's greatsword before the party continues on their way.

After another arbitrary day or two, the Menagerie wanders into an ambush from the boughs above. Haeltin's heightened senses of smell and hearing allow him to determine that this ""ambush"" is set by only two creatures. After a bit of parleying, the ambushers reveal themselves: a goblin, dressed in a shabby, too-large tunic that once dreamt of being green and an oversized cap who calls himself Goblin Hood, and an orc, wearing a similar but much-too-small cap who introduces himself as Bruce before being overriden in his introduction by the goblin as Little John. Goblin Hood refers to quotes from a beat-up copy of Robin Hood (read backwards and backwards by the goblin) to guide how he should react in this situation.

As it becomes apparent that the party will not consent to being robbed from in order to be fed to the poor, Goblin Hood confers upon them the honor of being members of his Merry Men, and departs upon the shoulders of the apologetic orc.
