---
title: "38: The Bookwyrm"
date: 2017-11-04T19:36:52-07:00
description: "In which the party learns the secret at the top of the tower of the Thoughtstealer goblin tribe."
---

38: The Bookwyrm (2017-11-04)

Some time after parting ways with Goblin Hood and his Little John, Haeltin's nose picks up a rather familiar scent, and his ears detect footfalls. Before long, the orc Bruce catches up with them (with the goblin still on his shoulders) with a plea for their aid. Goblin Hood tells them that a patrol from his clan found the two of them and took his book away in order to deliver it to The Parchment. Goblin Hood explains that The Parchment is a mysterious being that lives at the top of the tower of the Thoughstealer goblin tribe's encampment. While no goblin has ever seen The Parchment, they know that it is powerful and that it keeps the tribe safe from external threats as long as they maintain a tithe of literature - mundane books, of course, but magical scrolls are highly prized as well. Citing the party's membership as his Merry Men (though they did not consent to such a title), Goblin Hood all but demands they help him recover his lost belonging, in exchange for what he calls his greatest treasure.

Curious, the Menagerie agree, and they set out towards the Throughtstealer tribe. Along the way, they pass by a broken wagon with neither horse nor occupant. Goblin Hood explains that his tribe knocked off that wagon earlier that day, drove off its owners, stole the horse, and looted the cart of food, valuables, and literature.

As they draw near to the Thoughtstealer encampment, Caerwyn and Bruce each opt to remain distant from the outpost. The home of the Thoughtstealer tribe is a muddy patch of earth surrounded by a perimeter of thick wooden stakes, anchored into the ground and sharpened at the top. An ancient tower in disrepair stands at a jaunty angle in the center of the encampment.

Initially, two goblin guards deny entrance to all the party except for Goblin Hood, whose real name is revealed to be Ripsnak. Haeltin engages one guard in an act of lethal persuasion involving a rock, and ""convinces"" the other guard to let them through. With sufficient intimidation, the party is able to escort Ripsnak directly through the encampment to the base of the tower, where two more guards nervously let them pass.

The entrance to the tower is not a proper door; rather, the tower has sunk into the earth over countless years, and several rough planks of wood have been fitted over a window which is now ground-height. The window opens onto a spiral staircase; to the left, as the stairs descend into the soil, the stairwell soon becomes blocked with earth and stone. To the right they continue upward, ending in a small stone landing in front of an old, iron-bound, wooden door. The group learns that the door is both locked and protected by magic, and the booming voice of The Parchment demands that they leave. After some negotiation, Gimble persuades the creature to let them in exchange for some rare literature.

The door opens of its own accord and reveals a round room that was must have been a study long ago. Bookshelves line the walls, and a pair of tattered, overstuffed chairs and an old desk rest upon a faded circular rug. A few orbs of arcane light float near the ceiling and provide illumination. And yet, the room is empty of inhabitants.

A few of the party members begin to glance at the tomes on the shelves, and they discover that most of the books are empty - front and back covers connected by a spine, but with no pages between. After a bit more conversation with the disembodied voice of The Parchment, a rustling begins to emanate from a few volumes on a bookshelf. An old piece of yellowed vellum that has been folded upon itself over and over again slips out from between two books, and it unfolds itself as it begins to fall. The paper's fall becomes a glide, and then a flight, as the paper finishes its creased expansion into an origami dragon about the size of a housecat. Nearly the entirety of its papery skin is inked with the glowing blue runes and phrases of spellcraft, and the creature formally introduces themself as The Parchment.

_The Parchment had lived in this tower for as long as they can remember. While they never knew the wizard that created them, they learned about him - and more importantly, his magic - from journals and notes that he had scribed and kept stored in the study. In solitude, the Parchment learned to cast protective spells on the study; indeed, the party learned that many magics wouldn't function in this room - especially fire magic, which is particularly threatening to a being made of dry plant fibers. It was because of this very lack of protection in the outside world that the paper dragon decided it would remain in the tower. Paper goods are the dragon's source of nutrition, however, and the stores in the study could only hold out for so long._

_When a goblin tribe set up a temporary camp near the tower, The Parchment used their magic to hail the goblins in a voice that would be intimidating enough to awe the creatures, but not so frightening as to drive them away in terror. They struck a deal with the tribe - The Parchment would allow the goblins to create a permanent encampment around the tower and would protect it with all of their magical prowess. In exchange, the goblins would never try to enter the study, and in addition to the provisions and valuables they looted from natural raids and excursions, they would also deliver any paper and literature (both magical and mundane) that they should come across to the landing outside of The Parchment's door. Under this new modus operandi, the superstitious goblins came to call themselves the Thoughtstealers, and to worship the unknown being in the tower as a local deity._

At length, the Menagerie and the paper drake come around to the original matter of the visit: a literary transaction. In exchange for Gimble's _scroll of fireball_ and a couple of Hael's dwarven history books, The Parchment returns ""Robin Hood"" to Ripsnak (who is very excited about the entire situation). And to make up for the disparity in the trade, The Parchment offers for the party to look around the study for something to make the trade equal. At the end of it all, Hael obtains a _figurine of wondrous power_ (a bronze statuette of a griffon with the ability to transform into a real, true-sized griffon), and Val finds a _wand of wonder_ (a gaudy golden wand with colorful gems and baubles which casts random magic).

As they bid each other farewell, The Parchment bestows a final gift upon Ripsnak: an old, tattered wizard's hat that once belonged to their creator, and the title of ""Official Liaison to The Parchment."" Ripsnak has become the only goblin ever granted permission to enter the sanctum of the tribe's mystical protector.

(The hat is absolutely far too large for the little goblin.)

Goblin Hood, proud and puffed up with importance, leads his merry band of bonded adventurers back out of the encampment - at least, until Hael reminds him of his promise of payment; Ripsnak's ""most precious possession."" Having completely forgotten about it, Ripsnak immediately changes pace and marches through his muddy village to his home - partly a mound of dried mud, and partly a hole scratched into the earth, Ripsnak is very proud of it. Moments later, he emerges with a squat glass bottle, stoppered with a cork worn from frequent use. A thick, greasy, lard-like substance is contained within, brownish-yellow in color.

"Griffon grease!"" Ripsnak exclaims, handing it up to the half-elf. ""The smell sometimes helps me to sleep at night."

With prizes in hand, the group leaves the encampment and rendezvous with Caerwyn and Bruce in the outskirts. Ripsnak and Bruce bid the adventurers farewell, and the Menagerie set off once more with their Tuathan guide.
