---
title: "35: The Katabasis, Part 4"
date: 2017-08-25T19:31:40-07:00
---

35: The Katabasis, Part 4 (2017-08-25)

(Finn, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)

_20 Uktar 1491 DR_

The party's front line rushes towards the platform at the bottom of the stairs, while Horns and Reidoth remain on a bridge above, calling down lightning on the devils. The two spined devils take to the air, but the chain devil hooks one of them and drags it back to itself. After issuing a hurried command, the chain devil hurls the spined devil through the portal. Six bearded devils dive into the magma and disappear beneath the surface, the chain devil releases the bonds of the tanarukk, and the pair of barbed devils hurl balls of flame at the party.

As the bearded devils emerge from the lava and begin to charge up the staircase, Val summons forth a small host of giant toads, and the chain devil animates several of the thick chains hanging about. Between the toads and the chains, the majority of both sides of the battle end up restrained on the black iron steps.

Finn falls unconscious once or twice, but eventually the party prevails and the devils disappear in clouds of black, sulfurous vapor. The tanarukk lies dead and bleeding on the steps, and Val claims its crude, inelegant greatsword for herself.

The Menagerie approaches the portal - an imposing obsidian construction, its 10' x 10' frame surrounds a space 20' wide and 30' high. At its top, jagged obsidian embellishments curl upward to cradle a transparent, spectral orb full of an inky blackness; occasionally, a ghostly face twisted in a silent scream emerges from the dark and fades back into it. The portal itself is like a black velvet fabric stretched to the edges of the frame, shot through with twisting flecks of red light.

Reidoth produces a smooth, pale rod; it looks like birchwood, with a green crystal embedded into each end. He twists it apart at the center and hands one half to Horns, telling him that the bond between the rods is what should allow him to keep the portal from collapsing once it's been destroyed from the other side. He wishes the party good luck, and drinks a potion of invisibility.

The Menagerie spend a few moments preparing themselves, then - battered and bruised - step into the portal.
