---
title: "34: The Katabasis, Part 3"
date: 2017-08-18T19:31:01-07:00
---

34: The Katabasis, Part 3 (2017-08-18)

(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Ivor, Val)

_20 Uktar 1491 DR_

The party presses further downward into the volcanic heart of Mt. Hotenow, harried by devils every step of the way. The human barbarian Ivor finally manages to catch up to the group, joining the fray by leaping from bridges above onto a spined devil. Hael continues his tradition of tossing enemies from heights, Horns continues _his_ tradition of calling lightning, and Gimble webs a couple of flyers to the staircase. A spined devil deals enough damage to Reidoth's great owl form to break the spell, and both he and Finn plummet towards an iron doom. He manages to burn his final _wild shape_, Finn scrambles back onboard the large bird, and the two of them narrowly avoid pancaking. Val discovers a gorgon guarding an armory room, and nopes right the hell out (the gorgon doesn't give chase).

The party soon comes to the bottom of the caldera - to the gargantuan slab of black iron floating upon a lake of magma. Here sits the portal, guarded by a chain devil, a chained tanarukk, and a small contingent of lesser devils. Horns parlays with the chain devil, and tries to pull rank as a former general. The chain devil rebuffs him, however, citing the current general's power, and informs the party that they have two choices: leave, or die.

Val summons a tidal wave, Reidoth joins Horns in calling down lightning, and the Menagerie rushes the platform...
