---
title: "30: What's In A Name?"
date: 2017-06-02T19:26:49-07:00
description: "In which Lyra has been lost."
---

31: What's In A Name? (2017-06-02)

(Finn, Gimble, Hael, Horns, Val)

The party takes a couple of days in Neverwinter to obtain supplies and take care of some things before they make their journey into the Nine Hells of Baator:

- [Sildar](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-sildar-hallwinter) needs the name of an individual or collective in order to sign over the deed to Tresendar Manor and its grounds, and the party settles upon the moniker of ""The Menagerie."

- Horns commissions some scale mail to be made from the scales of Venomfang, the young green dragon, from [Melga](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-melga-proudshield); the armor won't be ready for at least a week, and the final price is unknown but due on pickup (50gp paid in advance).
- Dragon parts are sold to the Neverwinter Mage's Guild Outlet Store, and some potions are also acquired.
- Val goes to check up on [Lyra](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-lyra), and her aunt [Edith](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-edith) collapses into tears. It seems that a week prior, Val (or at least, someone who looked like Val) came to take Lyra out for lunch, and they haven't been seen since.
- Val learns about SaaS (spellcasting as a service) from [Woodard](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-woodard) of the Neverwinter Mages' Guild and discovers how expensive it would be for someone to cast a scrying spell.
- The party asks the Thieves' Guild in Neverwinter to conduct a search, but opts not to progress past the paywall.
- Hael spends a night with [Lily](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-lily-ashewood), and Finn and [Jon](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-jon) have a very awkward dinner date.
- Gimble acquires some arcane foci from [Alara](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-alara)'s oddities shop.

With their business concluded, the Menagerie set out in the year's first snowfall to meet up with [Reidoth](../non-player-characters/#wiki-toc-reidoth) once more in Thundertree, and begin their ascent of Mt. Hotenow.

Reidoth leads them to the exit of a lava tube partway up the mountain, saving them from trying to scale Hotenow's upper half. The tube is guarded by an abominable yeti, but a veritable menagerie of _conjure animals_ puts the beast to rest.
