---
title: "Six Months Later"
date: 2018-10-05T19:43:28-07:00
---

Six Months Later (2018-10-05)

## Finding Jon

Had left town about a month before we had arrived in Neverwinter.

### Neverwinter

### Thundertree

Looking for Jon there. Pick up his trail towards Mt. Hotenoh. Tracks head east from base of mountain. Find some of his leftover survival items.

Find signs of a shack.

Jon was being fed upon by a witch. When the party stormed in to stop this, the witch attacked. One-Shoe was turned into a snake, and the witch command Jon to attack Finn. The witch was trapped into a resilient sphere. Later she was encased in web and burned along with her shack.

### Neverwinter

Jon recovers over a few weeks time. Finn and Jon eventually go on a date.

## Gray's interlude

Sent on mission to investigate rumors of demonic activity in the Dessaren Valley.

Vanifer -- tiefling leader of a fire cult.

## Investigating Leilon

No real leads at first. There were signs leading to Leilon. But no one in Leilon claims to have ever seen her.

## Banking Agreement

1. Individual accounts as portion of total.
2. Single member can withdraw freely from their account.
3. Majority can withdraw across accounts.
4. Supermajority can alter the agreement.

## Horns Interlude

Picked up the green dragonscale armor.

## Finished Manor!!

Basement and two levels. 3rd level tower. Refurbished workshop. One-Shoe and Gimble collaborated to create a 7 foot clockwork dragon, complete with a gnome-sized compartment in the back. New porch area where old entrance was with a covered area that shines down a patch of light when the moon is right (commemerates Gray's first death).

Hired on Mirna and family as staff.

## Trynna

Church of Sune

## New people in town

A gnome and an elf arrive in town (?) to do some surveying equipment.

## Strange Images

Gimble saw a sequence of bizarre images in his book.

* a single circle
* 3 circles
* dozens of circles
* triangles and then other geometric shapes
* images of buildings from Leilon
* close up of a hand mirror

When Gimble touched the hand mirror, it felt damp. As time passes Gimble's clothes became more and more wet.

## Horns' Affair

Horns meets an alluring red-skinned woman in the Stonehill Inn who seemed to have been looking for him. Name is Camilla. Has slightly claw-like fingernails.

The next morning, she served him an infernal court summons to the 4th level of Hell to face trials.

Seal of Belial on summons second ruler. Fierna is other ruler.

## Gray (Jared) Meets up with strangers

Gray as Jared chats up the elf and gnome strangers. They told a tale of an event that happened 289 years ago: a large march of strange creatures of strange shapes (cubes, triangles, etc.).
