---
title: "catch-22 items"
date: 2020-09-05T23:22:51-07:00
description: "In which the party engages in arcane commerce, and a gnome makes a difficult choice."
---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

At the entrance to the Wandering Emporium, the party was greeted again by the gracious Mahadi. OneShoe took The Menagerie's warmachines to the Firesnake Forge for touch-ups and repairs, and Gimble went to the outskirts of the Wandering Emporium to set up a _tiny hut_ and work on some magical studies.

Shortly thereafter, the group (sans Gimble) reconvened in front of the new arrival to the Wandering Emporium: a wooden wagon with "GRUNDLE & CHODE'S ARCANE BOUTIQUE" stenciled in gilded letters on its sides. As they approached, the side of the wagon folded outward to form a countertop and a plane of green canvas unrolled from above the opening to create an awning. Standing behind the counter were two enterprising goblins. The one who talks did so with gusto and at length, introducing himself as Grundle and his silent compatriot as Chode.

Grundle explained to The Menagerie that the Arcane Boutique travels far and wide, often going between planes. On the material plane, the closest they get to the party's headquarters in Phandalin is their yearly autumn stop in Waterdeep. As part of the contract they have with Asmodeus which allows them free passage throughout Avernus, any business they conduct in the Nine Hells must be done using _soul coins,_ and the goblins' strict "no haggling" code meant that all their items were available for one _soul coin_ each. OneShoe was less than pleased at the goblins' unwillingness to haggle, and walked off to oversee the work being done on the warmachines. The rest of the party, though, set about perusing the shop's goods.

> The details of the Arcane Boutique's inventory and the party's purchases are detailed at the end of this post.

In addition to selling their inventory, Grundle and Chode were on the lookout for other items of interest that the party might have. They were willing to purchase three items of _rare_ quality or better for two _soul coins._ Thus, after selling some of their excess inventory, The Menagerie concluded their shopping spree with 5 _soul coins_ remaining amongst them.

At one point during the shopping spree, Not-Bailey grew worried that Gimble was missing out on the potential for getting good loot, so she went to track him down, and Finn followed her. They found Gimble's _tiny hut,_ but the dome was completely opaque, didn't allow either of them passage, and Gimble wasn't responding to any of Finn's communications. After a few tense minutes, Gimble emerged from the _tiny hut_ and dismissed the spell, then apologized to Finn and Not-Bailey and told them that he had been lost in focus.

The shopping spree wound down, and Gimble struck up a brief conversation with Cassandra. She told him that one of The Reclamation's more prominent loci operandi (on the Material Plane, at least) is the Great Library at Candlekeep, a fair distance south of Waterdeep. Moreover, she explained that their primary headquarters is located somewhere on Mechanus, as well as one of their largest repository of dangerous artifacts. She intimated that if Gimble were ever in the market for a new vocation, he should inquire about The Reclamation at Candlekeep.

Gimble asked Grey if he still had the scroll of _plane shift._ Grey said he did, but he was increasingly reluctant to show it to Gimble just as Gimble was increasingly adamant that he do so.

Then, tensions began to rise.

The growing frustration that Gimble had been carrying around with him came out, and he could no longer hold his tongue about the things that he held important. His family - Nyx and Lyra - had finally been found, and yet here he was, in Hell, trying to dig the party out of yet another hole instead of staying with his family and helping to keep them safe while some unknown organization was hunting them down.

Gimble wished the party well and then, with an incantation and a gesture, disappeared.

Thinking quickly, Zed brought forth his _lantern of revealing_ and cast its light upon the general area around where Gimble had been. The edge of this light caught the tail of an invisible _imp_ sneaking off away from the group, and Zed gave chase. He called out to the _imp_ and entreated Gimble to stay. The _imp_ said that it didn't know what Zed was talking about, and kept edging away from the conversation and trying to leave. Zed cast _command_ on the _imp_ and compelled him to become Gimble. The spell took hold and the _imp_ looked confused for a moment, then transformed into a rat, which sat back on its haunches and shrugged at Zed. The _imp_ had no idea what a Gimble was, and just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time when Zed used his _lantern._

Gimble was gone.

The Menagerie stood uncertain in the dusty winds of Avernus, Cassandra awkwardly nearby. Feeling the need for a drink in the wake of Gimble's departure, Finn, Horns, Zed, and Cassandra made a visit to the Infernal Rapture for more 50-gp-each drinks and the accompanying 24-hour HP recovery buff.

> **For the next 24 hours, whenever these characters spend hit dice to regain hit points during a short rest, they may treat each hit die rolled as if it had rolled its highest value.**

---

## Grundle & Chode's Arcane Boutique

_Entries tagged with_ :moneybag: _denote items that the party has purchased._

Grundle recognized that Horns and Val were druids, and to incentivize the group to buy something, he offered this free magic item if the group made one or more purchases:

:moneybag: **[Fionnlagh's Phonic Retainer](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2135138-fionnlaghs-phonic-retainer)**

> _Wondrous Item, rare_
>
> _Designed by the eccentric gnomish druid and tinkerer Fionnlagh Finni who had a great fondness for miniature clockwork constructions. He preferred to work while wild shaped into small monkeys (like talapoins or mangabeys), but while these forms were well-suited to tiny craftwork, their inability to communicate with assistants, etc. was a constant source of frustration._
>
> _If you wild shape while wearing this retainer, your original mouth is preserved throughout the transformation. This grants you the ability to speak almost the same as you normally could when not wild-shaped, at the expense of being able to verbally communicate as your wild shape form otherwise could._
>
> _You look weird, though. Do an image search for "animals with human teeth" to get a feel for how you look._

Apart from that, the following details the items available in and purchased from Grundle & Chode's Arcane Boutique:

### (Animalia)

:moneybag: **[Bridle of Ferocity](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2130622-bridle-of-ferocity):**

> _Wondrous Item, rare (requires attunement by a by a mount similar enough to a horse to be able to wear a bridle)_
>
> _This finely-crafted bridle is made of supple, blue dragon's hide that shimmers with an opalescent sheen. It has 3 charges, and regains 1d4 spent charges every day at dawn._
>
> _While attuned to this bridle, its wearer may expend a charge as an action to cast dragon's breath upon itself._

:moneybag: **[The Goodest Neckerchief](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2147788-the-goodest-neckerchief):**

> _Wondrous Item, rare (requires attunement by a by the goodest doggo (note: all doggos are the goodest doggo, and even some non-doggos can count as doggos))_
>
> _While attuned to this magical kerchief you can use your action to cast false life upon yourself at 3rd level, requiring no material components. Once you've used this feature, you can't use it again until you've completed a long rest._

:moneybag: **[Barding of Protection](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2145529-barding-of-protection):**

> _Wondrous Item, rare_
>
> _Requires attunement by a mount. Barding which can be worn by a mount. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws while you wear this barding. You also confer a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws to your rider._

### (Armor)

**[Breastplate of Elemental Absorption, +1](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2131386-breastplate-of-elemental-absorption-1)**

> _Armor (breastplate), rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _You have a +1 bonus to AC while wearing this armor. It has 6 charges, and regains 2d4 expended charges daily at dawn._
>
> _While attuned to this armor, whenever you are the target of - or subjected to a saving throw of - a spell or magical effect that would deal cold, fire, or lightning damage to you, you may use your reaction to cause the armor to absorb the spell on your behalf. If you do so, the spell has no effect on you, and the armor expends a number of charges equal to the spell's level. If the armor has fewer unspent charges than the level of the spell, it expends all remaining charges; then, roll 1d6+X where X is the difference between the absorbed spell's level and the number of charges that the armor spent. If the result is 5 or greater, the gem in the armor explodes, dealing 36 (12d6) force damage to you and all creatures within 10 feet of you. Each of these creatures other than you may make a DC 13 Dexterity save, taking half of that damage on a success. This explosion destroys both the armor and its enchantment._
>
> _Notes:_
>
> _- When absorbing a cantrip, the number of charges depends on the cantrip's scaling. As an example, consider firebolt: at its base level it deals 1d10 fire damage, which would require only one charge to absorb. Then, when the cantrip scales to 2d10 at level 5, it would require two charges to absorb; and so on._
>
> _- If you use the armor's ability to absorb an area of effect spell like fireball, it does not consume the entire spell. It absorbs the portion of the spell that would affect you directly, but any other creatures caught in the spell's area of effect would be unaffected by this armor's absorption and would interact with the spell as they otherwise would._

:moneybag: **[Bracers of Versatile Smackdown, +1](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2133152-bracers-of-versatile-smackdown-1)**

> _Wondrous Item, very rare (requires attunement by a by a character with the ability to Smite (Divine Smite, Eldritch Smite, etc.))_
>
> _These magical bracers have 5 charges, and regain 1d4+1 unspent charges upon finishing a long rest._
>
> _While attuned to these bracers, you receive +1 to your armor class. Additionally, whenever you use a smite feature (such as divine smite or eldritch smite), you may expend one or more charges from these bracers as a free action to enact the following effects:_
>
> _Bigger Smite (1 charge): Add 1d8 to the smite's damage. This damage is the same type as the smite._
>
> _Different Smite (1 charge): Change all of the smite's damage to one of the following types: cold, fire, lightning, force, or radiant._

**[Armor of Attenuation, +1](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2131395-armor-of-attenuation-1)**

> _Armor (half plate), very rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _You have a +1 bonus to AC while wearing this armor. It has 3 charges, and regains all expended charges daily at dawn._
>
> _While attuned to this armor, when you are subjected to an effect that would deal acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, or radiant damage to you, you may use your reaction and expend one charge from the armor. If you do, you instead take only one third of that damage (rounded up). At the end of each of your next two turns, you take that same reduced amount of damage again._

:moneybag: **[Studded Leather of Borrowed Time, +1](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2130739-studded-leather-of-borrowed-time-1)**

> _Armor (studded leather), rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _This masterfully-crafted suit of light- and slate-grey studded leather armor includes a leather cuirass, a gorget, pauldrons, and tassets, and confers an additional +1 bonus to your AC._
>
> _Borrowed time: While attuned to this armor, you can use a bonus action to speak the armor's command word and invoke its latent necrotic energy to borrow vigor from your own future. When you do so, the armor darkens to blacks and dark greys and you gain a number of temporary hit points equal to half of your maximum hit points (rounded down). These temporary hit points last for up to 24 hours or until you complete a long rest, whichever comes first. Once you've used this feature, you cannot use it again nor unattune to the armor until you've provided remuneration._
>
> _Remuneration: The next time you take a long rest after using borrowed time, the armor collects on your debt. After you've completed the long rest, you take damage equal to half of your maximum hit points (rounded down), and the armor reverts to its lighter color scheme. This damage cannot be avoided or reduced in any way._

**[Butcher's Bib](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/butchers-bib)**

> _Wondrous Item, rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _This black leather apron is perpetually covered by blood, even after being washed off. You gain the following benefits while wearing the apron:_
>
> _- Once per turn when you roll damage for a melee attack with a weapon, you can reroll the weapon’s damage dice. If you do so, you must use the second total._
>
> _- Your weapon attacks that deal slashing damage score a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20 on the d20._

Any **[Armor of Resistance](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/armor-of-resistance)**

> _You have resistance to one type of damage while you wear this armor._

**[Belt of Elemental Resistance (lesser)](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2147839-belt-of-elemental-protection-lesser)**

> _Wondrous Item, rare_
>
> _As an action, you may turn the knob on this belt to one of three glyphs indicating cold, fire, or lightning. If you do, you have resistance to that element for 1 minute. Once you've used this feature, you cannot do so again until after you've finished a long rest._

**[Belt of Elemental Resistance (greater)](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2147844-belt-of-elemental-protection-greater)**

> _Wondrous Item, legendary (requires attunement)_
>
> _Whenever you complete a short or long rest, you may change the elemental affinity of this belt to cold, fire or lightning. While you are attuned to this item, you have resistance against that element._

:moneybag: **[Belt of Hill Giant Strength](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/belt-of-hill-giant-strength)**

> _Wondrous Item, rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _While wearing this belt, your Strength score changes to 21. The item has no effect on you if your Strength without the belt is equal to or greater than 21._

### (Weaponry)

:moneybag: **[Chains of the Black Inferno](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2133653-chains-of-the-black-inferno)**

> _Weapon (whip), very rare_
>
> _This weapon is composed of three half-inch-diameter lengths of black iron chains, each terminating in a vicious hook. The handle is made of the same material, and is wrapped in the cured, leathery hide of some Abyssal aberration._
>
> _You have a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. It has 3 charges, and regains all expended charges at dawn._
>
> _When you hit a Large or smaller creature with it, provided that you are not already grappling a creature, you may choose to grapple the creature (escape DC 14). While grappled in this way, the creature is restrained and takes 4 (1d6) piercing damage at the start of each of its turns._
>
> _While attuned to this weapon, you gain resistance to fire damage._
>
> _While attuned to this weapon, you may expend one of its charges and speak its command word to cause black fire to envelop the length of the weapon for 1 minute._
>
> _Black fire: While wreathed in these flames, attacks with this weapon deal an additional 2d6 fire damage. This fire damage bypasses the fire resistance (but not fire immunity) of any creature which is not a fiend native to the Nine Hells. These flames do not shed any light._

:moneybag: **[Shadowglass Dagger, +1](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2135036-shadowglass-dagger-1)**

> _Weapon (dagger), rare_
>
> _The blade of this dagger is made of a thin, obsidian-like material, and is practically weightless._
>
> _You have +1 to attack and damage rolls with this magic weapon._
>
> _When you hit a creature with this weapon, it deals an additional 2d4 necrotic damage. Additionally, this weapon passes through skin and clothing, doing damage to the target's internals but leaving no outwardly-visible traces of the wound._
>
> _(source: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/670754938228775470/)_

:moneybag: **[Dagger of Shifting Poisons, +2](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2145408-dagger-of-shifting-poisons-2)**

> _Weapon (dagger), very rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _You have a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. It has 6 charges, and regains 1d6+2 expended charges daily at dusk._
>
> _While attuned to this weapon, as a bonus action you can whisper its command word, choose a poison from the list below, and expend the associated number of charges. If you do, the weapon secretes the chosen poison along its blade. The poison remains on the blade for up to 1 minute, or until you hit a creature with this weapon, at which point that creature is subjected to the effects of the chosen poison._
>
> _Drow poison (1 charge): A creature subjected to this poison must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also unconscious while poisoned this way. The creature wakes up if it takes damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it awake._
>
> _Serpent venom (2 charges): A creature subjected to this poison must make a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 10 (3d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one._
>
> _Bone Devil poison (3 charges): A creature subjected to this poison must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) poison damage on a failed save and is poisoned for 1 minute. On a successful save, the target takes half damage, and is not poisoned. While poisoned in this way, the target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success._
>
> _Wyvern poison (4 charges): A creature subjected to this poison must make on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one._

### (Other)

:moneybag: **[The Peregrine's Guide to Charismatic Negotiations](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/445134-the-peregrines-guide-to-charismatic-negotiations)**

> _Wondrous Item, very rare_
>
> _This book contains guidelines for influencing and charming others, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Charisma score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century._
>
> _The Peregrine's Guide to Charismatic Negotiations: How to Procure Kingdoms and Influence Princesses_
>
> _A Self-Help Treatise by Peregrine Ignatius Amadeion Tarquin von Tavish_
>
> _Foreword:_
>
> _I understand you seek a simple yet fantastically effective method by which you may win the affections of others in all arenas: camaraderie, supervisory, and sexual. Look no further! My vast studies on this matter will have you dining debutantes and bedding barmaids, aiding allies and leading lackeys in no time! None in all the Realms has a greater mastery of these endeavors than I – for who else can boast of a tongue so silvered that it has swindled the very pants from Asmodeus himself? – and I am here to share my secrets with you!_
>
> _Foreword by Peregrine Ignatius Amadeion Tarquin von Tavish_

**[Last Breath](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/2008302-last-breath)**

> _Wondrous Item, rare_
>
> _This blue sapphire is the center of a chain bracelet. It flashes a dim purple light in time with the wearer's pulse._
>
> _If you drop to 0 hit points while wearing this bracelet, the bracelet is consumed and you immediately transform into an Air Elemental for 5 minutes. All your stats are replaced with those of the Air Elemental (including your hit points). You retain only your ambitions, desires, and ability to understand (but not speak) any languages that you normally can._
>
> _If you drop to 0 hit points as an Air Elemental, you die immediately. If you survive as an Air Elemental for the full 5 minutes, you return to your normal form with 1 hit point._
>
> _(source: https://www.reddit.com/r/DnD/comments/gywngw/oc_30365_last_breath/)_

**[Tentacle Rod](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/tentacle-rod)**

> _Rod, rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _Made by the drow, this rod is a magic weapon that ends in three rubbery tentacles. While holding the rod, you can use an action to direct each tentacle to attack a creature you can see within 15 feet of you. Each tentacle makes a melee attack roll with a +9 bonus. On a hit, the tentacle deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage. If you hit a target with all three tentacles, it must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature's speed is halved, it has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it can't use reactions for 1 minute. Moreover, on each of its turns, it can take either an action or a bonus action, but not both. At the end of each of its turns, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success._

Any **[Ring of Resistance](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/ring-of-resistance)**

> _Ring, rare (requires attunement)_
>
> _You have resistance to one damage type while wearing this ring._

**[Rod of Retribution](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/rod-of-retribution)**

> _Rod, uncommon (requires attunement)_
>
> _This adamantine rod is tipped with a glowing crystalline eye. The rod has 3 charges and regains all its expended charges daily at dawn._
>
> _When a creature you can see within 60 feet of you damages you while you are holding this rod, you can use your reaction to expend 1 of the rod’s charges to force the creature to make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 2d10 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one._

**[Ring of Obscuring](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/ring-of-obscuring)**

> _Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)_
>
> _This band of iron resembles a skull and is cold to the touch. It has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. As an action while wearing the ring, you can expend 1 of its charges to cast the fog cloud spell from it, with the following changes: the cloud is centered on you when it first appears, and the spell lasts for 1 minute (no concentration required)._
