---
title: "demons in the headlights"
date: 2020-10-09T16:41:36-07:00
description: "In which one might conclude The Menagerie is suicidal."
---

---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

---

With their immediate threat having been dealt with, and with a moment to catch their collective breath, The Menagerie came together upon the Anti-Chrysler to have ~~an argument~~ a discussion about what to do next, and why.

There was conversation about what the party's actual goals were: did they want to treat with Bel? Did they want to consult Red Ruth instead, or otherwise find their own way to the hidden resting place of _the ring of Zariel?_ Did they want to bother with Mad Maggie's fetch quest at all? Or perhaps they should just abandon Horns to his court summons and get the hell out of hell?

Eventually the group resolved to continue on their current path, and they set off in search of Bel's Forge, the heart of a massive volcano somewhere on Avernus. Ralzala the Dao had pointed out the location on their map, so they had a workable idea of what to envision as they traveled across the war-torn wastes, and within a couple of hours, a vast plume of dark smoke grew visible upon the horizon. They drove toward it, and more and more of the volcano revealed itself, appearing to grow from and rise above the distant horizon line.

Then, as they closed more distance, they could make out a frenzied skirmish line surrounding the volcano in a rough horseshoe shape, the open mouth of the horseshoe butting up against where the river Styx flowed near Bel's Forge. A fortified infernal force was arrayed on the interior line of the skirmish, while a much smaller and far more unorganized demonic incursion flung itself savagely against the volcano's defenders.

The Blood War stood between The Menagerie and their destination.

Goatlike _bulezau,_ rampaging _barlgura,_ chitinous _glabrezu,_ and even a number of _nalfeshnee_ were bent on wreaking as much destruction as they could. In the skies, _vrocks_ and _chasme_ harried the devilish host, but the complement of _bone devils, barbed devils, bearded devils,_ and the beautiful but terrifying _erinyes_ held strong, staunching the attack through superior tactics, position, and discipline. The demonic combatants didn't number large enough to have much hope of breaking through the defense and assaulting the volcano, but accomplishing a tactical military victory was far outpaced and overpowered by demonic cruelty and lust for violence.

The Menagerie saw a few potential options before them. The Styx was wide and deep, but they could try to develop some temporary method of traversing it; just enough of a solution to get them around the combat and onto the slopes of the volcano. They could try to all gather up in whatever flight formations they could sum together in order to avoid most of the fighting by an aerial route, likely abandoning their warmachines in the process. Or, they could find one of the less intense sections of the battle and try to punch their way through on the warmachines.

They began circling the skirmish at several hundred yards, and when Val identified a piece of the battle that wasn't _as_ thick with combat, she dumped a flask of demon ichor into the _demon grinder_ and drove the party into the fight. The plan was to deal as much damage to the demons as they could while not bringing arms against the infernal defenders and wind up on the other side of the horseshoe all alive and well, and hopefully not be immediately set upon by devils.

The fray was thick with fiendish bodies, and Val at the help of the _demon grinder_ made great use of its bulk to slam into the creatures. At the front, in the chomper station, Finn raged, and as a side effect, emitted a thicc beam of radiant energy from her chest like a Care Bear with an Arc Reactor. Grale sent a couple of harpoons into the throng, and
