---
title: "gourd of wrath"
description: "In which important obligations are fulfilled."
date: 2020-10-23T23:00:00-07:00
---

The _nalfeshnee_ appeared on the back of the _demon grinder,_ immediately menacing Horns (who was still in _air elemental_ form). The Menagerie brought a world of hurt down upon the demon, prompting the _nalfeshnee_ to call down and consume some of the surrounding airborne _chasme_ to undo some of the wounds it had sustained.

Throughout the combat, Finn kept hearing her own voice inside her head, telling her that she ("we") was wasting time here and that she ("we") had an obligation to fulfill elsewhere. While the defeated _nalfeshnee_ rapidly decomposed into a slurry of thick ichor, Finn found herself holding a small gourd in a hand that had been empty. She took a bite of it, and told the party something about what her inner voice was telling her. Her feet rapidly grew roots, and the party was unable to escape the thicket of briars that grew around the Anti-Chrysler, lifting it from the ground, and the tumultuous red light of Avernus' sky was shut out by the intertwining brambles.

Grey he questioned Finn about where the party was going, but Inner Finn was vague in answering. Finn attempted to separate the arboreal matter from her feet. It cut away easily, and left her feet undamaged, and so she began to hack a way out of the thicket with her axe. A familiar light grew visible as Finn made an exit: a wan, lavendar twilight, uniform in distribution, caused terror to rise in Grey's throat as he remembered Oberon's Wild Hunt and the Raven Queen's warning to stay out of the Feywild.

The party emerged from the thicket and the Anti-Chrysler within onto the soft floor of an immense old-growth forest, the trees dozens of feet in diameter. A very large squirrel some 15 hands high (at its shoulder, around a foot and a half taller than Finn or OneShoe) scurried out from the woods and came to a sitting rest in front of the party. He addressed Finn, thanking her for coming to honor her duty, and requested that she and the group follow him with haste.

The squirrel led them half an hour or so through the forest, then climbed up a great tree to a hollow in the trunk dozens of feet above the ground. Inside was a cozy hall, much larger in volume than what should be able to be contained within the tree. Braziers, benches, tables, tapestries, and other such royal appointments decorated the hall, crafted with skill from natural found materials.

The squirrel led them deeper into the hall, eventually halting and bowing before a throne built in the same manner as the rest of the decorations. Upon the throne was seated a very round raccoon, proportionally larger than the squirrel. The raccoon thanked the squirrel (the party learned his name was Valiant), summoned tea for the Menagerie, and then thanked Finn for coming to the aid of him and his kingdom in their time of great need.

The party inquired about the details of Finn's obligation, and learned that this raccoon king and his peoples composed a sort of vassal state to the Autumn King, and that Finn, being of high-ranking Autumn herself, held some responsibility towards fulfilling the upstream obligations to such vassal states.

The raccoon king explained how, with Titania having been brought low, the natural balance of the Feywild had been cast into disarray. Winter was coming early, and it was coming hard. The North Wind had recently blown through the woods, burst into the hollow, and stole a precious artifact. The raccoon king described the object as a pyramid, and the group would know it by its autumnal colors.

His best information held that the artifact had been secreted away in the vegetable fields of a farm not too far from the hollow. Grey expressed dramatic concern that the Wild Hunt would find them if they quested about in the open Feywild for a length of time, and the raccoon brought forth a tray which held an array of the faces of various animals. The king asked the party whose hearts they each would take, then explained that wearing them should go a great distance towards protecting the group from notice; Autumn-made glamours are some of the strongest amongst the fae.

The Menagerie selected and donned masks, which bent their forms into those of the creatures they chose: Finn, a porcupine; Grey, a cat; OneShoe, a skunk; Val, a skeleton; Zed, a bear, and Bullwinkle, a badger. The raccoon king again dispatched Valiant the squirrel to be the party's guide to the outskirts of the farm, and the group departed the hollow.

Less than an hour later, they arrived at the edge of the woods, and Valiant gestured out towards the giant-sized farm. Most of the environs were buried beneath heavy, unseasonable snow. With Valiant remaining at the border of the forest, Grale cast _pass without a trace_ on the Menagerie, and they crept across the outskirts of the open space into the cornfield that formed the first motte they had to navigate.

The oversized cornstalks towered above them, stretching a few stories above the group. Their breaths came in cold, visible puffs, but they left no footprints in the snow. It felt eerily quiet, but they did their best to creep along unnoticed. OneShoe felt something catch and tug at her clothing, but the source of such an act couldn't be located when she spun around to look.

The Menagerie sighed with relief when they emerged on the other side of the cornfield. A large path separated them from the wall of a fence that enclosed a snow-covered vegetable garden, with one exception: near the center of the garden sat an immense pumpkin, roughly twenty feet in diameter, and warm - the massive gourd was not covered in snow like the rest of the garden.

Grale climbed up to the top of the pumpkin to investigate, which is when it started quaking beneath him. Thick vines acting like some sort of legs lifted the pumpkin into the air, large mouths split open in the sides of the gourd, and it began to whip its tendrils out at the party.

Zed and Bullwinkle became grappled in yet another fight, while the rest of the group assaulted the massive vegetable with claws and teeth. Most of the group was able to dodge the monstrosity's "breath" weapon, but those who didn't were subjected to a stream of high-velocity acidic goop punctuated with heavy seeds.

The Menagerie were able to make fairly quick work of the monstrous pumpkin, and it shuddered and collapsed onto the ground. A golden glow could be seen from within, and upon investigation, they found a floating cone-shaped artifact, colored in three bands of white, orange, and yellow. They recovered the stolen candy corn, and rendezvoused with Valiant at the forest's edge.

Back at the hollow, the raccoon king recovered the masks he had lent the group and expressed his profound gratitude at the return of the stolen candy corn. As a final thanks before sending the group back on their way, he gifted Finn a fist-sized gourd and a _pot of awakening,_ and once more Valiant accompanied the group - this time, back to the Anti-Chrysler. The squirrel bowed and waved them goodbye, and the brambles again grew dense around the _demon grinder._

Moments later, the crimson light of Avernus filtered through the thicket as the branches cracked and broke and fell apart, and they found themselves returned to the devil side of the skirmish surrounding Bel's Forge.
