---
title: "\"zed's folly\""
date: 2020-07-10T09:19:09-07:00
description: "In which the Menagerie discovers the better part of valor."
---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

This past session also featured a lot of combat, riding on the coattails of Horns' and Zed's decision to free a soul from its impalement upon the steel branches of one of the Avernian iron trees that line the trail leading up the hill. A half dozen stirges descended upon the two while the rest of the party was moving further up the path. Val's advance party was easily able to notice the scuffle, and between Val's group and Horns' group, the six stirges were easily dispatched.

Then a funnel of swirling storm clouds descended from Avernus' tumultuous skies, eventually dissipating above the top of the hill some 300 feet away from the Menagerie to reveal a heavily-armored fiendish knight astride a burning _nightmare._ Another dozen stirges flocked up from the victims on the tree to antagonize the party, and the fiend - known to Horns and Val as a _narzugon_ - rode through the air in the group's direction.

Zed rode up on his own _nightmare_ - Bullwinkle's form here on Avernus - to meet the _narzugon_ in mounted battle, but the _narzugon_ managed to land all three of his hits and dealt more piercing and fire damage than Zed had hit points; luckily, Bullwinkle was able to confer fire resistance onto Zed, so the paladin remained conscious after that damage mitigation, but it was one hell of an opening combat round. Thereafter the _narzugon_ maneuvered such that he could catch the entire Menagerie in the range of his terrifying command, which frightened several of the party.

The party was scattered and fractured by the _narzugon_'s assault, but they managed to reform and start putting together their own offense. Fear was a constant participant in the battle; for each member who landed a blow upon the _narzugon_ another of these black iron Avernian trees sprouted from the rocky ground, bare, save for a plaque and an inscription that listed the party member's name and the crime of "assaulting an officer."

In the sidelines, Val noticed another hellwasp closing distance, and managed to get a shot off as it joined the fray. It flew a direct course to Lulu, successfully grappled the tiny hollyphant, and began to fly off with what seemed to be an easy meal. However, Val, Grale, and Grale's direwolf were able to dispatch the fiendish insect and save Lulu, who took cover.

Most of the Menagerie deemed a full frontal melee to be too risky, and so they played to their strengths and their name: Horns and Val each summoned eight giant owls to launch flyby attacks upon the _narzugon,_ and Zed used an elemental gem to summon an _air elemental_ (although many of these creatures fell victim to the fear of another terrifying command from the _narzugon_). Grale used his weighted chain to temporarily entangle the _narzugon_'s _nightmare_ and did a bunch of anime-AF monk shit to get a 15-foot vertical leap and bonk the _narzugon_ with his staff of the Monkey King. A lot of focus was placed upon targeting down the _nightmare_ since it was easier to strike than the _narzugon_, but another round of combat brought Zed down to 0 hp. However, a deep, familiar voice to Zed resounded in his mind, and stirred the rage in his orcish blood to maintain his consciousness. The paladin was able to slap down several hefty smites, and soon the _narzugon_ and his mount took to the skies again for a moment's respite, allowing the _narzugon_ to flood infernal energy into the _nightmare_, fully healing the creature.

Lulu finally realized where she had led the party, and revealed to Horns that the _narzugon_ they were fighting was named Haruman, that she had directed the group to the wrong hill, and that they should definitely not be here. Seeing the damage that Haruman had been able to wreak so far (upon Zed especially), the Menagerie decided that discretion is the greater part of valor and they beat feet in a tactical retreat back down Haruman's Hill to their demon grinder. The druids were able to keep Haruman distracted by using their giant owls to lift more souls from their eternal arboreal torment, and our heroes managed to escape the brutal contest.

As the adrenaline faded, Lulu revealed to the Menagerie some of Haruman's history. He had been one of Zariel's generals in the time before her fall, and when her host crashed and broke upon the infernal legions, Haruman took it upon himself to deliver judgement upon those of the host who deserted the cause. In the eons since, Avernus has warped and bolstered Haruman; what once was a being of strength and righteousness has been burned away, leaving only a fiendish arbiter of his own justice.
