---
title: "2021 08 18"
description: "In which a schedule is laid out."
date: 2021-08-18T23:00:00-07:00
---

## Summary

After much deliberation, the party reluctantly signs a modified form of [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/other-notes/tymphals-contract/) in order to engage [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/)'s services. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) also receives a surprise visit from an old companion which had been kept secret from the party until now.

## Session Notes

## Synopsis

### Recap

> [2021-08-04 Import Campaign](/dnd/2021-08-04/)
>
> [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) receives news of the Feywild from an old friend before he is later served up as part of a "cake" buffet delivery to [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/). The party is approached with an offer of work to pay off [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/)'s hefty fee to defend [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/), but it requires making another deal with a devil.

### Events

#### Accepting Tymphal's Contract

- At their room in The Brimstone, the party considers whether they should take [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/other-notes/tymphals-contract/). Considering the trial for [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) starts *tomorrow*, they don't even know if they have time to complete the work.
- [Ignaraz](/dnd/characters/np-cs/ignaraz/) returns to hear the party's decision. She finds that, in the interim, [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) had constructed a giant pillow fort in the suite. Bemused, she joins Finn and the party in the fort to discuss further.
- More info is shared about what to expect from the trial. Though it is slated to begin tomorrow, it is expected to last perhaps a month.
- [Ignaraz](/dnd/characters/np-cs/ignaraz/) fields some questions from the party about the contract and agrees to make some modifications.
    - The *Brooches of Hellish Voyager* can only be used together.
    - Since the party's funds are mainly on the material plane, [Ignaraz](/dnd/characters/np-cs/ignaraz/) stated that, in the event of needing to pay for damage to the bailments, a debt collection agency could transport the party back to their home plane to acquire the necessary funds.
    - The party clarified some terms of the contract, captured in Tymphal's Contract#updates
- The party is given a lead to get information on the tower. Find Bazaz.
- After some deliberation the party signed the contract and went to inform [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/). 

#### The Return of Horns' Secret Friend

- [Psithyron](/dnd/characters/np-cs/psithyron/), [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)' imp companion shows up at The Brimstone to find him. This is a surprise to [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/), who was wondering where had gone, and to the rest of the party, who had no idea that Psithyron existed.
- Psithyron catches up with Horns and relates how embarrassing it was to have to commit suicide on the Material plane to get back to the Hells.

#### Engaging Carmen's Services

- The party informs [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/) they have accepted [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/other-notes/tymphals-contract/) to pay for her services.
- Carmen says she will delay that start of the trial for about three days.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)

### Returning

- [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/)
- [Psithyron](/dnd/characters/np-cs/psithyron/) (guest-voiced by Jonathan)

### New

- Cylin (sp?), an acquaintance of [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) from the Summer Court
- [Ignaraz](/dnd/characters/np-cs/ignaraz/)

### Mentioned

- Bazaz
- [Fierna](/dnd/characters/np-cs/fierna/)
- [Magrin](/dnd/characters/np-cs/magrin/)
- [Queen Titania](/dnd/characters/np-cs/queen-titania/)
- [Oberon](/dnd/characters/np-cs/oberon/)
- [Tymphal](/dnd/characters/np-cs/tymphal/)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- The party acquires several *Brooches of Hellish Voyager*, which can only be used together.

## Trivia

## References