---
title: "Vrock 'n' Roll"
description: "In which a party member returns changed"
date: 2021-01-22T23:00:00-08:00
---

---

_**Warning:** this post may contain spoilers for the "Baldur's Gate: Descent Into Avernus" 5e module._

---

The Menagerie took some time to sort their shit out and figure out what they wanted to do and how they wanted to proceed now that the group was feeling like themselves again. They couldn't be certain whether they were actually following OneShoe's tracks or whether they were just ascribing meaning to disparate Avernian features. They resolved to drive in whatever direction seemed best while thinking about OneShoe, hoping that the same psychic entreaties they've used in the past to navigate Avernian landmarks would work in the same way to lead them to their companion.

The camera zoomed out on the Anti-Chrysler, far enough that the vehicle disappeared from view, then moved across the landscape and zoomed back in on the dust trail of another vehicle - a _devil's ride_ crewed by OneShoe and Lulu.

OneShoe had also taken some time beneath a rocky outcropping for a long rest of her own, then continued on her trek back towards Fort Knucklebones to deliver Lulu safely back to Mad Maggie. She power-slid to a stop outside of the gate, still held by a complement of _redcaps_ and _madcaps,_ and in the course of saying goodbye to the _hollyphant_ OneShoe realized that an unfamiliar warmth was coming from her pocket.

She withdrew the business card that Cassandra Belacourt - drow agent of the Reclamation - had left her before departing for the Material Plane with the unicorn Mooncolor and the _bag of devouring,_ and found it to be outlined and glowing with a white-golden light, and newly adorned with a pulsing, shining rectangle emblazoned with the text, "Press To Answer."

OneShoe pressed the rectangle, and a ghostly display of Cassandra sprang forth from the face of the card. Cassandra greeted OneShoe, apologizing for not having said that the business card could be a point of contact in a manner similar to a set of _sending stones._ She made a bit of idle conversation for a moment, then explained that she was successful in returning Mooncolor home and was now resting up in Mount Celestia. She said that Mooncolor actually was the impetus for the conversation, and after some off-screen difficulty in figuring out how to arrange the card so that Mooncolor could talk into it (Cassandra ended up just holding it), the unicorn's image shimmered into view.

Mooncolor was glad to see OneShoe, and was happy to report that her recovery had been going well now that she was freed from Avernus and back at home. She apologized for not having been able to do more when the group freed her from the Demon Zapper, and asked if there was anything that she could do now that her strength was returning to her. OneShoe actually had an answer, having spent some time reflecting on the various types of deals and bargains and bonds that could be struck. She explained how she wished that she were more capable, and asked if Mooncolor would be able to help her better defend and guide her friends; to help her be a better force for good. Mooncolor found OneShoe's heart to be agreeable, and offered to make a pact. OneShoe agreed, placed the card against her forehead as instructed, and felt a painless spike of warm energy lance into her head. Her warped aberrations were gently dissolved away, and swirling, golden tattoos
