---
title: 2021 10 27
tags:
  - my/DND/campaigns/import_campaign/sessions
date: 2021-10-27T23:00:00-07:00
---

# 2021-10-27 Import Campaign

## Summary

After spending some time with the stone giant [Keith Stone](/dnd/characters/np-cs/keith-stone/), the party continues gathering intel for their Caper at Fierna's Tower. They speak with [Melkor](/dnd/characters/np-cs/melkor/) and later [Aeortis](/dnd/characters/np-cs/aeortis/), who gives them detailed information about the tower's construction in exchange for a new contract to retrieve something extra from the tower. A letter is delivered to the party by a strange messenger.

## Synopsis

### Recap

> [2021-08-18 Import Campaign](/dnd/2021-08-18/)
>
> After much deliberation, the party reluctantly signs a modified form of [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/other-notes/tymphals-contract/) in order to engage [Carmen](/dnd/characters/np-cs/carmen/)'s services. [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) also receives a surprise visit from an old companion which had been kept secret from the party until now.

### Events

#### Spending Time with Keith

#### Psychic Scream in Tunnels

#### Talking to a Devil

- Talking with [Melkor](/dnd/characters/np-cs/melkor/) and inquiring about Bazaz.

####  Meeting Aeortis

- talking with [Aeortis](/dnd/characters/np-cs/aeortis/) about [Fierna](/dnd/characters/np-cs/fierna/)'s tower about the obsidian construction and energy constructs.
- Aeortis manifests as a little girl with three hellhound pets
- likely this is not her real form
- Aeortis requests the retrieval of a Soul Coin on the 42th floor containing the soul of an elf paladin [Quilnorie](/dnd/characters/np-cs/quilnorie/)
- She gave the party a "Devil's postbox" to transport the coin back to her
- There are several pockets in the tower that teleportation is possible

#### A Secret Message

- Unknown to the party, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) has been searching for them on the request of Baron [Gorstag](/dnd/characters/gorstag/). He has been checking various portals to Phlegethos for signs of the party.
- He catches up to them outside Aeortis's house.
- Hears a dog whistle from inside; plays it back. Grey comes outside.

Letter contains _illusory script_, keyed to the party only.

Outer Message:

> We have tried to contact you multiple times about your cart's warranty, and you have failed to extend it past the factory cutoff. This is a courtesy message before we close your file. Please contact our service department as soon as possible.

Inner Message: 

> If you are reading this, hope is not lost. We've had to stay on the move. Many eyes. Usual communication channels are not safe.
> 
> Ask the messenger, "What is the Baron's favorite opening?" If they answer, "The Phandalin Gambit," you should be able to trust them.
>
> When I contact you again, use the cipher below. 
> 
> Sorry about...how I left. I wasn't myself.
>
> - G

#### Greetings and Group Therapy Session

- the party meets Rinn'thalas.
- lots of chatting and getting to know each other, which turned out to involve lots of pent up personal trauma, especially from [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/), who exploded about how she made a pact with a unicorn in a desperate attempt to do some good for once.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)

### Returning

- [Keith Stone](/dnd/characters/np-cs/keith-stone/)

### New

- [Aeortis](/dnd/characters/np-cs/aeortis/)
- [Melkor](/dnd/characters/np-cs/melkor/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)

### Mentioned

- [Fierna](/dnd/characters/np-cs/fierna/)
- [Magrin](/dnd/characters/np-cs/magrin/)
- [Quilnorie](/dnd/characters/np-cs/quilnorie/)

## Quotations

## Inventory

- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) gives [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) a letter addressed to the party.

## Trivia

## References