---
title: 2022 03 30
tags:
    - my/DND/campaigns/import_campaign/sessions
date: 2022-03-30T23:00:00-08:00
---

## Summary

The party's escape from the tower stalls with the realization that they are unable to teleport all of their summoned creatures to safety. Knowing [Fierna](/dnd/characters/npcs/fierna/) could locate them any moment, some hard decisions are made at the expense of [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)'s minotaur friends, and the Menagerie finally teleports away. Back at the Brimstone, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) is quickly ejected from the presidential suite, and [Grey](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) sends a message to [Ignaroz](/dnd/characters/npcs/ignaroz/) about the successful mission. The spined devil soon arrives at the suite and teleports them directly to [Tymphal](/dnd/characters/npcs/tymphal/)'s domain. There, the party finally meets their employer, who does not deign to address them directly. Ignaroz, however, speaks on their behalf, and confirms the details of the events at the tower, including some upsetting revelations about [Magrin](/dnd/characters/npcs/magrin/). The contract is concluded, and the Menagerie, Ignaroz, and Magrin are set to receive their appropriate rewards. Returning to the Brimstone, Grey finds Rinn'thalas waiting in trance at the bar and helps him with his drink before engaging the ranger in conversation. Meanwhile, Zed forms an impromptu hellish band on the Brimstone stage. Upstairs, [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/) receives a delivery and the unexpected return of a confused dwarf. Though Magrin tries to shield himself from Finn inflicting her friendship upon him, it seems the dwarf will be around for the foreseeable future.

## Synopsis

### Recap

> Having dispatched the remaining guards in the corridor, the party resumes its search for [Magrin](/dnd/characters/npcs/magrin/). They find a room with six pillars, adorned with piles of teeth--apparently some ghastly connection to [Gelfondi](/dnd/characters/npcs/gelfondi/)'s machine room found earlier. Despite [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)'s best efforts, [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) proves a hindrance to their joint investigative efforts. Alone, [Gray](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) does his best to efficiently and silently search the remaining rooms, but this is soon interrupted by some locker room antics from [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) and his herd of minotaur berserkers. Without Rinn's distraction, Oneshoe focuses and successfully disarms an intricate needle trap at the entrance of yet another torture chamber. Within, they find a certain dwarf, gravely injured and pleading for help. Just as the party has their objective in hand, the keen senses of the summoned wolf pack pick up sounds from the south--an approaching elevator. Frantic, the party dashes for the closest means of escape, just as a growing illumination looms from the southern corridor. Over her shoulder, Oneshoe can just make out a figure in the distance, an imperious beauty wreathed in orange-white flame. [Fierna](/dnd/characters/npcs/fierna/) has arrived.

### Events

#### Escape From the Tower

- [Fierna](/dnd/characters/npcs/fierna/) has arrived at the floor of the tower.
- The party prepares their escape, but they realize there is a problem. They don't have the ability to transport their summoned creatures from the tower.
- The wolves can be dismissed on command, but the minotaur berserkers summoned from the _Horn of the Endless Maze_ will remain until an hour has passed or they drop to 0 HP.
- After some anxious discussion, [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/) has three of the minotaurs hop in the portable hole and commands the remained to return to the Abyss. . . by ritual group suicide.
- The party joins hands and teleports from the tower.

#### The Brimstone

- The party arrives at the presidential suite.
- Unfortunately, the three minotaur in the portable hole did not survive the trip.
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/) demands to know from Zed what was going on with his minotaurs keeping him out of the room last session. Zed says he doesn't really know at first, but then says it was about the thing they couldn't discuss with him.
- [Grey](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/) sends a magical paper bird note to [Ignaroz](/dnd/characters/npcs/ignaroz/) informing her of the completion of the mission. He then promptly ejects Rinn from the room, telling the ranger that he cannot be involved.
- Rinn'thalas goes down to the main area of the Brimstone to find a place to wait it out. He notices an unusual spined devil walking up to the upper rooms.
- Ignaroz meets the party, confirms their status, and then teleports them elsewhere.

#### Tymphal's Domain

- The party is teleported to a vast center of manufacturing. It is bustling with a large number of duergar and assorted devils.
- Ignaroz leads them to a structure with a gargantuan set of doors.
- The interior is appointed with a "showier-steampunk" aesthetic.
- Seated at a very large desk before them is an immense, imposing figure--a sort of mixture of golem and fiend. He sports a pair of enormous wings, but his great bulk makes it seem improbably that they could actually carry him aloft.
- There are various duergar running about, passing about plans.

#### The Rewards of Loyalty

- Zed forgoes the incoming introduction from Ignaroz and just exclaims, "Hello, Tim!" which is promptly ignored.
- (Some out of character discussion about the party's "I went the infernal courts of Abriymoch and all I got was this T-shirt" attire, which grant fire resistance.)
- Ignaroz steps forward a bit and states that she has brought the party, as they have completed the task.
- [Tymphal](/dnd/characters/npcs/tymphal/) sends the rest of his staff out of the chambers and has all the doors closed.
- Grey collects the brooches from the party to return.
- Grey lets Tymphal know they found a contract that claims [Magrin](/dnd/characters/npcs/magrin/) went willingly.
- Ignaroz seems tense and upset at this revelation.
- Zed attempts to console Ignaroz.
- Ignaroz collects the contract between Fierna and Magrin, the brooches, and the soul coin with Magrin, and places it all on Tymphal's desk.
- Ignaroz retreats and then says, "wait a moment," and then disappears in a puff of brimstone.
- A duergar comes in, and Tymphal hands Magrin's coin over to the dwarf.
- Tymphal then goes back to his business, completely ignoring the party.
- An awkward six or seven minutes later, Ignaroz reappears with some things. She gives the party:
  - a _helm of brilliance_
  - a coupon for a flame tongue weapon of choice
  - an item of green steel armor (which will be delivered)
  - they also receive the money/gems/soul coins of their choice as per Tymphal's Contract#2 Compensation.
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/) "casually" asks how much is in the bag of holding that Ignaroz is dispersing rewards from.
- The party redeems the coupon for a _flame tongue battle axe_ for [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/).
- Ignaroz says the contract and business has been concluded. She bites her finger to get a drop of blood on the contract, which burns up.
- Horns hands Ignaroz a goodberry to heal her finger, and she is bemused.
- Tymphal then lifts one of his massive fingers, and Ignaroz is thrown to the ground. Her forms shifts, and she rises as a type of bearded devil--not quite as rough and tumble as a normal bearded devil, but taller and with more "gravitas". Ignaroz is overjoyed, and she squeals a bit with excitement.
- Tymphal shoos the party out of his presence.
- Zed asks Ignaroz to join the party on the return to the Brimstone, but she declines.
- Ignaroz hands Horns a pardon signed by Tymphal.
- The party is teleported back to the Brimstone.

#### Return to the Brimstone

- The party chat briefly in their suite. Grey sternly reminds Zed to _not_ tell anyone about the Caper at Fierna's Tower.

#### The Mighty Brimstones

- Grey finds Rinn, deep in a trance at a quieter corner of the establishment.
  - Rinn had pre-paid for four hours of drinks, and put most of that towards [Magnanimy](/dnd/characters/npcs/magnanimy/)'s tab.
- Grey does not wake up Rinn at first, instead enjoying the ranger's untouched drink.
- Meanwhile, Zed starts an impromptu band called _The Brimstones_ on the stage. It is a motley assortment, that somehow kinda works.

#### Magrin Will Be Around

- There is a knock on the door, and someone calls, "Delivery!"
- Two duergar are at the door bearing a green bundle.
- Unpacking the bundle shows a green steel shield with a face upon it.
  - **Magrin's Betrayal** is a sentient shield made by an archdevil of Phlegethos, Tymphal, that houses the soul coin of Magrin, his once loyal assistant. It is an exquisitely made, smooth, circular, targe shield made from baatoran green steel. It is decorated along the circumference with infernal letters of obsidian, that says “Magrin, the Betrayer”. A highly-polished, wicked-looking silver spike comes out of the center. Because of Magrin’s disloyalty, Tymphal fused Magrin’s soul coin within the prison of this shield, to serve another master for eternity. Tymphal thinks it is appropriate, and humorous, that Magrin will be continually struck for the remainder of his days, serving a mortal master.
- Finn starts conversing with Magrin's soul in the shield.
- Magrin slowly comes to the realization that Tymphal trapped him in the shield.
- Magrin really does not like the situation, but is unable to escape. Finn "inflicts her friendship" on Magrin-the-Shield.

#### Conversation with Grey and Rinn

- Grey thanks Rinn'thalas for his assistance at Fierna's Tower. He asks if the party can do anything in return. Rinn says he could talk about that later.
- Rinn notes again the crazy party dynamics and the disunity demonstrated during Horns' trial. He then asks if Grey is worried about [Val](/dnd/characters/val/). Grey asks why. Rinn says she reminds him a bit of someone he used to know. Grey asks who in the world could remind him of Val!
- Rinn is light on details, but says he knew someone who was lost in the dark, making deals with entities he should not have. He says his advice is not to wait: if they still care about Val, they need to help her find her way back.
- Grey probes a little more, asking if Rinn is also looking to find someone similar. Rinn says that he has been hunting whispers.

## Featured Characters

### The Party

- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/)
- [Grey](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/)
- [Horns](/dnd/characters/horns/)
- [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/)
- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/)

### Returning

- [Magrin](/dnd/characters/npcs/magrin/)
- [Oneshoe](/dnd/characters/oneshoe/)
- [Ignaroz](/dnd/characters/npcs/ignaroz/)

### New

- [Tymphal](/dnd/characters/npcs/tymphal/)
- The Brimstones

### Mentioned

- [Fierna](/dnd/characters/npcs/fierna/)
- [Carmen](/dnd/characters/npcs/carmen/)

## Quotations

- [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/): "A minotaur de-force"
- Zed: "It was minotaurable"
- [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/): "No minotaur stakes?"
- Zed: "Ready Zeddy!" (to [Ignaroz](/dnd/characters/npcs/ignaroz/), who asked if they were prepared to travel)
- [Grey](/dnd/characters/haeltin-var-astora/): "Best drinking partner I've ever had!" (to himself as he stole a drink a tranced-out [Rinn'thalas](/dnd/characters/rinnthalas-liadon/))

## Inventory

- Party: pardons for crimes as per [Tymphal's Contract](/dnd/import-campaign/tymphals-contract/) as well as other rewards from the Tymphal's Contract#2 Compensation section.
  - [Finn](/dnd/characters/finn/): shiny gems worth 5000 gp and a flame tongue battle axe
  - [Zed](/dnd/characters/zed/): diamonds (and possibly other gems) worth 5000 gp
  - Finn: Magrin's Betrayal, a sentient green steel shield

## Trivia

## References
